	  	  	  	  	  InfoPAKSM	  Corporate Compliance Sponsored by: 
      	  Corporate Compliance    Updated September 2013   Provided by the Association of Corporate Counsel 1025 Connecticut Avenue NW, Suite 200 Washington, DC 20036 USA Tel +1 202.293.4103 Fax +1 202.293.4701 www.acc.com   This InfoPAKSM guides the in-house practitioner on how to establish a corporate compliance and ethics program.  It begins by outlining the primary corporate legal obligations and requirements, focusing on the Federal Sentencing Guidelines, Dodd-Frank and Sarbanes-Oxley, and then delineates the fundamental elements of an effective compliance program, focusing on how to maximize the potential of your compliance program.  Finally, it discusses effective training and enforcement once the program is implemented, and offers numerous additional resources, including sample forms and policies and a Model Code of Conduct at the end.   The information in this InfoPAK should not be construed as legal advice or legal opinion on specific facts, and should not be considered representative of the views of WeComply, Inc. or of ACC or any of its lawyers, unless so stated. Further, this InfoPAK is not intended as a definitive statement on the subject.  Rather, this InfoPAK is intended to serve as a tool for readers, providing practical information to the in-house practitioner.   The information contained in this InfoPAK was developed by WeComply, an ACC Alliance Partner. For more information about WeComply, please visit its website at http://www.wecomply.com or see the “About the Author” section of his document.    For	  more	  ACC	  InfoP AKs,	  please	  visit	  www.acc.com/infopaks
3 
 Contents 
I. Introduction ......................................................................................................................................... 5
II. Corporations and Legal Liability  ....................................................................................................... 7
A. Federal Sentencing Guidelines  ................................................................................................................................................ 7
B. A Variety of Legal Obligations  ................................................................................................................................................ 9
C Stability and Protection: Dodd Frank  .................................................................................................................................... 11
D. Ethics and Financial Accountability: Sarbanes -Oxley ......................................................................................................... 11
E. State Law Issues .......................................................................................................................................................................... 12
F. Benefits of a Commitment to Sound Business Ethics  ........................................................................................................ 13
III. Maximizing the Potential of Your Compliance Program  ............................................................... 14
A. Customizing the Program to Your Compan y ..................................................................................................................... 14
B. Codes of Conduct and Company Policies  ........................................................................................................................... 15
C. Endorsement and Management of Compliance Programs  ................................................................................................ 17
D. Program Implementation .......................................................................................................................................................... 19
E. Fostering a Culture of Accountability  ................................................................................................................................... 21
IV. Training ................................................................................................................................................ 25
A. Training Courses: Subject Matter  .......................................................................................................................................... 25
B. Teaching Techniques .................................................................................................................................................................  25
C. Training Course Content ......................................................................................................................................................... 26
V. Enforcement of the Code and Policies  ............................................................................................. 27
A. Monitoring ................................................................................................................................................................................... 27
B. Responding to Suspicious Conduct  ....................................................................................................................................... 28
C. Investigations and Fact-Gathering .......................................................................................................................................... 28
D. Resolving Violations ................................................................................................................................................................... 30
E. Internal Escalation to Senior Management  ........................................................................................................................... 30
F. Disclosures .................................................................................................................................................................................. 31
G. Evaluating Compliance Procedures ........................................................................................................................................ 32
VI. About the Author ................................................................................................................................ 34
VII. Additional Resources .......................................................................................................................... 35	  
Copyright © 2013 WeComply, Inc. & Association of Corporate Counsel  
4   Corporate Compliance 
A. ACC Resources .......................................................................................................................................................................... 35
VIII. Model Code of Conduct  ...................................................................................................................... 39
IX. Endnotes ............................................................................................................................................... 50For	  more	  ACC	  InfoP AKs,	  please	  visit	  www.acc.com/infopaks
5 
I. Introduction
Economic crises and public scandals often spur gove rnment action and change.  The sub -prime 
mortgage crisis brought the Dodd –Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, 
one of the most sweeping fina ncial regulatory measures since the Great Depression.  Dodd -Frank, 
among other things, gran ted new enforcement powers to the Securit ies and Exchange Commission 
(SEC) and added teeth to the SEC's whistleblower bounty program.  
Together with Sarbanes -Oxley1, Dodd-Frank may be reshaping the regulatory landscape. And 
while Congress remains deadlock ed, at least for now , regulatory agencies —  along with the U.S. 
Department of Justice and state attorneys  general —  are employing increasingly aggressive 
methods to scrutinize corporate conduct, enforce existing civil and criminal laws, and punish 
individuals for corporate wrongdoing with civil  fines, criminal penalties, and, in some instances, 
prison time.  
In this regulatory context, an effective compliance and ethics program that explains a corporation’s 
increasingly complex legal obligations is a critical part of any organization’s responsibility to its 
members and the public, and its best protection against government enforcement actions.  These 
programs not only assist in the enforcement and prevention of crime, but also may be used to 
mitigate damage s in the event that crimes are committed.  
What This InfoPAK Contains 
Section II provides an overview of corporate legal obligations with a particular focus on the 
Federal Sentencing Guidelines , Dodd-Frank and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Although you may be 
aware of the particular laws that apply to your company, this section suggests that you consider 
how much everyone working for or on your company's behalf knows about the laws that pertain 
to the workplace generally and to your company specifically.  This wil l help identify any gaps in 
your compliance program, including training needs.  
Sections II, III and IV explain the following basic features of an effective compliance program: 
■ Conducting a risk assessment of your organization that identifies the areas of
noncompliance that need the most attention so that priorities can be set. (Section III . A.)
■ Establishing a comprehensive Code of Conduct that has the approval of the highest
governing authority of the organizations ( e.g., the Board of Directors). Making  sure the
Code contains a set of core values and objectives and addresses all legal and ethical
obligations that are applicable to your organization. (Section III . B.)
■ Disseminating the Code of Conduct to everyone in the organization through postings in
common areas, posting on the Intranet, inclusion in the employee handbook, etc.
(Section III. B. 2.)	  
Copyright © 2013 WeComply, Inc. & Association of Corporate Counsel  
6   Corporate Compliance 
■ Hiring or designating a compliance manager. The manager should have adequate
authority to carry out compliance responsibilities  and to communicate directly with the
highest governing authority or an appropriate subcommittee regarding any matter
involving actual or potential criminal conduct.  The manager should be required to issue
a report to the highest governing body at least annually.   (Section III. C.)
■ Implementing the program in a way that compels active participation, promotes
communication, links legal obligations to business goals, and provides incentives for
compliance and  whistle blowing. (Section III . D.)
■ Fostering a Culture of Accountability by en suring that all levels of the organization —
from senior executives to middle managers to rank -and-file employees— are engaged in
the program and its implementation. All hiring, promotion and delegation of duties and
responsibility should be done according to  the Code of Conduct. Policies regarding
these practices can be incorporated into the compliance program. (Section III . E.)
■ Providing ongoing training for both high -level officials and employees in: relevant lega l
standards and obligations that govern the workplace generally; those which govern the
Company’s industry specifically; on the Code of Conduct and where applicable,
training on those laws that govern international business. (Section IV .)
■ Establishing a system of monitoring and enforcement that incl udes anonymous
reporting mechanisms as well as a system of checks and balances that ensures the
compliance of everyone in the organization. (Section V . A. and B.)
■ Establishing a system for investigating violations of the Code. (Section V . C. D. and E.)
■ Documenting the program’s implementation, monitoring, and investigations. Your
company’s record-retention policy should also be a part of your compliance program.
(See Sections III ., IV. and V. as applicable)
■ Evaluating the compliance procedures. Use your com pany’s experience with reported
violations to improve the program and address concerns. (Section V . G.)	  
For	  more	  ACC	  InfoPAKs,	  please	  visit	  www.acc.com/infopaks	  	   	  	  
7 
II. Corporations and Legal Liability A. Federal Sentencing Guidelines The U.S. Sentencing Commission ("Commission") wrote the Federal Sentencing Guidelines ("Guidelines") in 1987 to ensure fair, uniform sentencing in criminal cases involving both individuals and organizations.  The Commission is an independent agency within the judicial branch of the federal government that was created by the Sentencing Reform Act ("SRA") provisions of the Comprehensive Crime Control Act of 1984.  Its main functions include: (1) establishing sentencing policy; (2) advising Congress and the executive branch on crime policy; and (3) collecting information on the effectiveness of sentencing and crime policies.   The U.S. Supreme Court upheld the constitutionality of the Commission as a judicial agency in 1989.2  The Court reaffirmed this decision in 2005, but held that the Sixth Amendment right to a jury trial meant that two key provisions of the SRA were unconstitutional.3  Accordingly, after this decision, the Guidelines are no longer mandatory and sentencing under the Guidelines is to be subject to appellate review for "unreasonableness."    In three cases in 2007, the Court clarified that the sentences within the ranges of the Guidelines may be presumed reasonable upon appellate review, and that while they were to be a benchmark for sentencing decisions, the Guidelines should be only one consideration among many.4    The Guidelines are divided into eight chapters and mostly address the sentencing of individuals, detailing specific criminal offenses.  Chapter Eight, however, focuses on the sentencing of organizations.  This chapter became effective in 1991 and was expanded significantly in 2004.  It outlines the following general principles in choosing the appropriate remedial measures and penalties against convicted organizations:  ■ Order remedies to compensate victims for the harm caused by the organization; ■ Organizations run primarily for criminal purposes or by criminal means should be divested of all assets; ■ The amount of fines should be based on the seriousness of the offense and the culpability of the organization; and ■ Probation is appropriate to ensure another sanction will be carried out fully or to ensure steps will be taken to reduce the likelihood of further criminal conduct.  Factors that warrant higher fines are:  ■ Involvement in or toleration of criminal activity; ■ Prior criminal conduct; ■ Violation of an order; and  ■ Obstruction of justice.    	  
Copyright © 2013 WeComply, Inc. & Association of Corporate Counsel 
8   Corporate Compliance  
Mitigating factors are:  ■ Existence of an effective compliance and ethics program; and ■ Self-reporting, cooperation, or acceptance of responsibility.  Chapter Eight details the following criteria for effective compliance programs:  ■ Promote an organizational culture that encourages ethical conduct and lawful compliance. ■ Exercise due diligence to prevent and detect crime.  ■ The highest governing authority must be knowledgeable of the content and operation of the program, oversee its implementation, and ensure its effectiveness. ■ Specific high-level personnel must be assigned overall responsibility for the program. ■ Specific individuals who have operational responsibility for the compliance program must (a) report directly to high-level personnel and, as appropriate, to the governing authority or an appropriate subgroup of the governing authority and (b) have adequate resources, discretion, and access to the highest governing authority or its subgroup. ■ Exercise due diligence to not hire or promote those who have engaged in illegal activities or other unethical misconduct to positions of substantial authority.   ■ Communicate periodically the standards and procedures of the program through training and information dissemination to: members of the governing authority, high-level personnel, substantial-authority personnel, other employees, and, as appropriate, agents. ■ Monitor and audit to detect criminal conduct. ■ Periodically evaluate the program's effectiveness. ■ Publicize a system for employees and agents to report or seek guidance on potential or actual criminal conduct without fearing retaliation – this may include mechanisms affording anonymity or confidentiality.  ■ Promote and enforce the program through incentives and discipline for criminal conduct or for failing to prevent or detect it. ■ Respond appropriately to criminal conduct and prevent future similar misconduct by modifying the program accordingly. ■ Provide specific reasonable steps to be taken if the organization detects potentially criminal conduct as a result of the compliance program.  ■ Assess the risk of criminal conduct periodically and take steps to modify the program to reduce the risk of similar misconduct.   In 2010, the Commission amended the Sentencing Guidelines to place increased emphasis on the effectiveness and independence of compliance programs and their relationship to the “culpability score” that the guidelines provide for calculating corporate fines and penalties.   The existence of an effective compliance program has always been a factor that weighs in favor of 	  
For	  more	  ACC	  InfoPAKs,	  please	  visit	  www.acc.com/infopaks	  	   	  	  
9 
reduced sentences.  Until the 2010 amendments, however, the Guidelines contained a rebuttable presumption that the compliance program was ineffective if senior management officials participated in, permitted, or ignored the charged criminal conduct.  Under the amended guidelines, the compliance program is still effective, and counts toward reduction of sentence, even if upper management participated in, permitted, or ignored the charged criminal conduct, provided the following conditions are met: ■ The individual with operational responsibility for the compliance program has direct reporting obligations to the governing body or an appropriate subgroup;  ■ The compliance program detects the offense before it is discovered by persons outside the organization, or before such discovery is reasonably likely; ■ The organization promptly reports the offense to appropriate governmental authorities; and ■ No individual with operational responsibility for the compliance program has participated in, condoned, or been willfully ignorant of the offense.  The third condition means that organizations that fail to report their wrongdoing receive no credit toward fine reduction for their compliance program, even if they subsequently cooperate with the governmental investigation.5  The note to the amended sentencing guidelines provides additional guidance for measuring the effectiveness of a compliance program.  An effective compliance program provides for “reasonable steps” the organization will take when it detects criminal conduct through its compliance program.  Such steps include providing restitution to victims, self-reporting, cooperation with authorities, and assessment of existing compliance programs and the use of professional advisors.  An effective compliance program may not absolve a company from liability, but it may aid the government in determining whether to seek civil fines or criminal penalties — and it could serve as a significant mitigating factor when damages or sanctions are decided.6 Additionally, while such a program may not prevent all criminal conduct, it will likely go a long way toward reducing the number of violations.  Furthermore, not having an effective compliance program may be used as evidence of reckless disregard for the law. In a case involving the False Claims Act (“FCA”), a federal district court in Pennsylvania found that a pharmacy service had violated the FCA because its lack of an effective compliance program constituted a "reckless disregard of the truth or falsity" of the alleged false claim.7   B. A Variety of Legal Obligations In deciding the scope of the compliance program and need for training on applicable laws and policies, you should be aware that a wide variety of laws have been passed imposing obligations on corporations. These include, but are not limited to, the following:  ■ Discrimination and harassment prevention; ■ Health and safety; ■ Wage and hour laws; 	  
Copyright © 2013 WeComply, Inc. & Association of Corporate Counsel 
10   Corporate Compliance  
■ Securities law, antitrust and ethics; ■ Disability accommodation; ■ Privacy laws; ■ Family and medical leave; ■ Labor relations; ■ Immigration law; and ■ Electronic media and copyright law.  In addition to these broad legal areas, it is likely that your company is or will be affected by certain industry-specific obligations, including requirements in the following areas:  ■ Environmental protection; ■ Hazardous materials; ■ Record retention; ■ HIPAA; ■ Political activity; ■ Telemarketing; and ■ Privacy and data breach notification.  Moreover, companies with global operations are subject to U.S. domestic laws, the laws of other countries, and regulations of international agencies in areas such as the following:  ■ Export controls; ■ Foreign Corrupt Practices Act;  ■ Sanctions and trade embargoes; ■ Customs; ■ European Union competition law; and ■ Fair competition.  In order to satisfy the due diligence requirements, a corporation must be able to show that employees, managers, and executives with responsibilities in these areas of the law have been informed of the standards for compliance and discouraged from committing misconduct. Some areas of laws only apply to certain specialized employees, managers or directors; others, such as prevention of discrimination and harassment, apply to everyone. Take this into account when devising/revising and disseminating your Code of Conduct and Company policies. (See Section II. B. for more information on this topic.)  Training the appropriate employees in each of these areas of law demonstrates a concerted effort to inform employees of the compliance standards and discourage misconduct. Compliance 	  
For	  more	  ACC	  InfoPAKs,	  please	  visit	  www.acc.com/infopaks	  	   	  	  
11 
depends not only on the employees’ ability to avoid their own misconduct, but to report suspect conduct, as well as to know when it is appropriate to bring things to the attention of a supervisor or other appropriate individual/department. For this reason, training on general principles of certain areas of law is necessary even for rank-and-file employees. (See Sections III and IV for more information on compliance training and enforcement.)  C Stability and Protection: Dodd Frank  On the heels of the largest financial crisis since the Great Depression, Congress in 2010 enacted the Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Pub.L. 111–203, H.R. 4173), which seemed at the time to be a game-changing, historic financial reform package.8    While the preexisting securities laws focused on transparency and disclosure requirements regarding the sale of securities, Dodd-Frank attempts to eliminate systemic, "too-big-to-fail" risk, promote financial stability, avoid government bailouts and enhance consumer protections.  Three years out, most of Dodd-Frank's contemplated rules and regulations have yet to be adopted; thus, its reach and impact remain uncertain.    Among other things, Dodd-Frank significantly expanded the SEC's confidential whistleblower program.9  The revamped program is up and running and, although it did not make its first award until 2012 (and then only $45,739.16 to a single whistleblower), and has made only one other award since, it logged 3,001 tips.10  Dodd-Frank protects whistleblowers by creating a private right of action in their favor against any employer who takes adverse action against them because they blew the whistle or assisted in an SEC investigation.  The whistleblower program could emerge as a significant regulatory tool with implications for organizations' internal reporting mechanisms.11    Dodd-Frank also requires executives to return incentive compensation based on erroneous and later restated financial results, and the SEC, as required by Dodd-Frank, now requires the national exchanges to de-list any publicly-traded company that does not comply with the Dodd-Frank claw-back provisions.12  D. Ethics and Financial Accountability: Sarbanes-Oxley After more than a decade, the Public Company Accounting Reform and Investor Protection Act of 2002, popularly known as Sarbanes-Oxley, SOX, or Sarbox, has earned its reputation as one of the most significant federal securities law passed since the early 1930s.   To prevent the kind of misconduct seen at Enron, Tyco, WorldCom, and other corporations, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act encourages whistleblowing and assigns stiff penalties for a company’s failure to implement reporting procedures and enforce other provisions.  Moreover, Sarbanes-Oxley holds corporate officers personally responsible for improper accounting. The law created new criminal penalties and increases the scope and severity of old ones. For example, the law imposes criminal penalties of up to 20 years in prison and fines of up to $5 million for gross misconduct.  The main features of Sarbanes-Oxley include the following: 	  
Copyright © 2013 WeComply, Inc. & Association of Corporate Counsel 
12   Corporate Compliance  
 ■ Certification Requirements: The chief executive officer (“CEO”) and chief financial officer (“CFO”) of every public company have certification requirements; among others, they must personally attest to the material accuracy of their corporation’s financial statements. This provision is designed to increase executive accountability for the financial information disclosed to the public and to improve investor confidence in such information. ■ Misconduct Involving Profit and Bonuses:  If, as a result of misconduct, a public company is required to prepare an accounting restatement due to material noncompliance with a financial-reporting requirement under the securities laws, the CEO and CFO must return to the company certain profits and bonuses. ■ Loans to Insiders: Public companies, with some exceptions, may no longer extend, maintain, or arrange for personal loans to or for the benefit of any executive officer or director of the company. ■ New Trading Restrictions: Trading in company stock by company executives, including transfers during pension-fund blackout periods, is restricted. ■ Audit Committees and Anonymous Complaints: Public companies must establish and disseminate formal procedures for addressing complaints of misconduct relating to accounting and auditing matters. ■ Whistleblower Protections: Whistleblowers may now bring a civil action with the U.S. Department of Labor against companies that engage in retaliation. ■ Enhanced Disclosure Requirements: Public companies are now under enhanced disclosure requirements that include the mandatory disclosure of all material off-balance sheet transactions and other arrangements that may materially affect the issuer's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, capital resources, or revenues or expenses; and whether the company has adopted a Code of Ethics, and if not, why not.  ■ Criminal Penalties: Criminal penalties for securities-related misconduct have been added or increased. ■ Attorney Conduct: For the first time, attorneys representing public companies before the SEC are subject to specific requirements of professional conduct.  E. State Law Issues  The reach of state-law prohibitions can extend well beyond state borders, and both federal and state governments have relied on these prohibitions to expand their enforcement authority.  New York's Martin Act and the use of the Travel Act13 to make violations of state bribery laws federal offenses are prime examples.    The Martin Act, New York's "blue sky" law, had been a sleeping giant until 2002 when then-New York State Attorney General Eliot Spitzer brought it into service against Salomon Smith Barney.14 New York attorneys general have continued to use it against financial behemoths in battles extending well beyond New York's borders and have collected billions of dollars in fines and 	  
For	  more	  ACC	  InfoPAKs,	  please	  visit	  www.acc.com/infopaks	  	   	  	  
13 
penalties. The lack of scienter and reliance requirements, the broad administrative discovery it permits, and its provisions for restitution and criminal penalties make it an especially potent weapon.    The Department of Justice now routinely uses the Travel Act to expand its enforcement authority. The Travel Act prohibits travel in interstate or foreign commerce or using the mail or any facility in interstate or foreign commerce, with the intent to distribute the proceeds of any unlawful activity or to promote, manage, establish, or carry on any unlawful activity.  “Unlawful activity” includes violations of not only the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), but also state commercial bribery laws. DOJ now also is turning to violation of such laws for the underlying Travel Act offensive, thus sweeping in domestic as well as foreign bribery.15  Compliance programs should contemplate potential liability under these and other state laws and provide guidance to avoid violations.  	  F. Benefits of a Commitment to Sound Business Ethics At the heart of an effective compliance program is prevention and detection of misconduct, along with the promotion of ethics and lawfulness.  Awareness of the law and the company's policies at all levels is critical so that liability-causing conduct can be identified and prevented.  A commitment to sound business ethics is beneficial to a company in many ways including the following:  ■ Avoiding or Mitigating Penalties. Under Sarbanes-Oxley, the stakes are even higher for publicly traded corporations. At its most basic level, a commitment to sound business ethics will help keep company executives out of jail and will help keep the company’s name out of newspaper headlines that include the word “scandal.” ■ Strong Employer/Employee Relations. A compliance program is a means to improve or establish good employer/employee relations. Employees on the front lines are perhaps best situated to contribute important information to a compliance program. In response, an employer who takes employee input seriously will generate goodwill among the rank and file. ■ Good Public Relations. A company can use its compliance program to recruit the best and the brightest employees, to market its products, and to strengthen its reputation. Trustworthiness is not easy to demonstrate by charts and graphs, but a compliance program allows sales representatives to go beyond mere platitudes in describing a company’s dependability and ethical standards.      	  
Copyright © 2013 WeComply, Inc. & Association of Corporate Counsel 
14   Corporate Compliance  
III. Maximizing the Potential of Your Compliance Program A compliance program can do much more than simply fulfill the minimal obligations of the criteria of the Federal Sentencing Guidelines. A company can use its compliance program to shape its culture, encourage the development of a more effective workforce, and enhance decision-making. A. Customizing the Program to Your Company An effective compliance program is customized to a company’s particular culture and risk profile. To create such a tailor-made program, the company should take the following steps: 1. Risk Assessment a. Conduct a Risk Assessment The purpose of conducting a risk assessment is to identify potential areas of    noncompliance. A typical risk assessment includes the following steps:  ■ Examine the industry. Prepare a report on the noncompliance experiences of colleagues and competitors. Confer with other companies and trade groups in your industry, as well as trade groups representing the consumers of your products or services. ■ Compile an Inventory of Compliance Risks. Search company files to determine compliance risks that the company has faced in the past. Review records such as civil complaints, SEC disclosure documents, board of directors' minutes, investigative records, insurance policies, risk management documents, accountant's or internal auditor's work papers, and employee questionnaires to develop a sense of your company’s historic risk areas. ■ Identify Compliance Issues and Examples. While conducting your risk assessment, be sure to include specific examples of steps your company took to avoid risks and whether these steps were successful or not. ■ Identify Potential Areas of Misconduct. As a place to start, review the list of areas of the law in Section II. B. above. Determine if your company is doing all it can to minimize misconduct in these areas or any other area of law that might apply to your company’s operations. b. Protect Documents Associated with the Risk Assessment Inevitably, conducting this audit will bring you into contact with all levels of your organization and varying degrees of confidential information. Keep in mind that the record of this audit can be subject to disclosure (through discovery or otherwise) in civil and criminal cases unless appropriate steps are taken to preserve legal privileges and rights. Although the specifics of the attorney-client privilege vary from state to state, most jurisdictions generally attach the privilege to communications under these circumstances:  ■ The communication is made to an attorney to obtain legal advice; 	  
For	  more	  ACC	  InfoPAKs,	  please	  visit	  www.acc.com/infopaks	  	   	  	  
15 
■ The individual made the communication at the direction of a corporate superior who made the request to obtain legal advice; ■ The communication was within the scope of the individual’s duties; or ■ The communication was not disseminated beyond those who need to know its contents.  In some jurisdictions, the self-critical analysis privilege may protect against disclosure of documents prepared in the course of an internal review in which the public has a compelling interest that outweighs the needs of the litigants and judicial system for access to the information.  However, courts have generally been reluctant to grant this protection.  Work product privilege may attach to information that has been gathered and analyzed in contemplation of litigation. Training on preserving legal privileges may be appropriate for certain employees, so that they are not inadvertently or unnecessarily waived. (For more information on these privileges, see Section V. C.) 2. Analyze Corporate Culture, Values, and Objectives Part of implementing a successful compliance program is analyzing a company’s culture, including its values and objectives. In performing this analysis, you might take the following actions:  ■ Define a set of core values and objectives and disseminate them on the company’s Intranet, in the employee handbook, in training programs, and so on. If the company does not have a stated set of goals and objectives, make this fact—and the legal consequences that attach to a lack of stated goals and objectives (i.e., an essential piece of the compliance program is missing)—known to senior management. ■ Set performance goals in the compliance program that are tied to corporate values and objectives and hold executives, managers, and employees accountable for meeting them. ■ Through surveys, questionnaires, and informal conversations, gauge the attitudes of the company’s executives, managers, and employees to the company’s goals and objectives. ■ Using the results of surveys or discussions on attitudes, identify unique cultural traits of the company (in a decentralized organization, this may be done by department) and tailor the program accordingly. ■  ■ Remember that the corporate culture can change over time so periodic reassessment of corporate culture is often necessary. ■ Get input from individuals throughout the company to develop a balanced program that reflects the needs of the company. ■ Have the program reviewed by appropriate upper management for inconsistencies with the company’s culture and values.  B. Codes of Conduct and Company Policies Compliance programs, including the compliance program in a larger organization, are generally 	  
Copyright © 2013 WeComply, Inc. & Association of Corporate Counsel 
16   Corporate Compliance  
part of a formal statement in the company’s policy handbook, code of conduct, operating procedures, or mission statement. 1. Structure of a Code of Conduct or Statement of Policies Compliance codes or statements of policies can be written in a variety of ways: as a simple list of do’s and don’ts; as a more general statement of the company’s commitment to certain values and objectives; or as a guide to employees on how to promote corporate responsibility in their work. Here are four general approaches:  ■ A guide that provides do’s and don’ts to employees; ■ An outline of corporate values and objectives; ■ A collection of philosophical statements concerning business practices and goals that employees should aspire to; or ■ A combination of all three.  (A sample code is provided in Section VIII of this InfoPAK.) 2. Drafting and Dissemination Since the compliance program is part of the company’s code and policies, a comprehensive written description of the compliance program should be accessible to all employees on the company’s Intranet, in a handbook, and/or posted in break rooms, and a copy should be given to all new hires, in addition to periodic training on the code itself.  Any documents describing the compliance program, including posted notices, should include the following:  ■ An opening sentence stating that the company is committed to complying with all applicable laws, regulations, and standards of conduct. ■ A clear statement that the company’s compliance program applies to executives, managers, employees, consultants, agents, and vendors who work with the company in some capacity. ■ The name of the company’s compliance officers or employees with responsibility for overseeing the compliance program; their pictures and contact information along with the officer’s duties and the name of an alternative person to whom violations should be reported if reports cannot be made to the designated compliance officer. Compliance duties should be described (e.g., the compliance officer is available to receive reports of impropriety or misconduct, answer questions, or provide counsel or advice). ■ An explanation of the procedures for filing anonymous reports of misconduct. ■ An assurance that all appropriate executives, managers, employees, consultants, and agents will complete compliance training, where appropriate, and the consequences for not doing so. ■ A pledge that retaliation for good-faith reporting of suspected noncompliance will not be tolerated. 	  
For	  more	  ACC	  InfoPAKs,	  please	  visit	  www.acc.com/infopaks	  	   	  	  
17 
■ A statement of the organization's commitment to investigate all reports of misconduct, and that if an employee is found to have committed misconduct, he or she will be given appropriate sanctions, including termination from employment.  Effective distribution of a company’s compliance program is essential. To ensure that all employees have the information required by law, you might want to consider the following:  ■ Be careful not to overwhelm employees with too much information—highlight those areas of the written compliance program that pertain specifically to the employee receiving the information. Some policies and code provisions will pertain to all employees but others won’t—differentiate between the two. ■ Review company policies frequently and solicit input from employees regularly. Receiving input from trade associations is also helpful. ■ Send periodic reminders about policies in company communications such as e-mails and newsletters. It may be advisable to describe a public company’s compliance program in the annual report. ■ Make sure that employees are aware of the penalties for violating various parts of a compliance program, especially those requirements that hold an individual accountable for the truth and veracity of company information. ■ Carefully describe record-retention policies; employees who know which documents to keep and when to suspend normal procedures in document destruction (in the event of litigation, for example) can prevent serious legal consequences for the company. Many laws also include special record-keeping requirements. ■ Be careful not to overstate the illegality of activities in your policy or code, since doing so may amount to an admission of guilt if an employee engages in the activity described as illegal. Instead, you might want to state that an activity in some circumstances may be illegal and that consultation with the legal department may be necessary to determine if the proposed conduct is acceptable. ■ Since a company can be held accountable for the actions of outsiders, the compliance program should be given to consultants, vendors, and anyone else outside the company whose actions fall under the company’s legal obligations. C. Endorsement and Management of Compliance Programs 1. Role of Board of Directors Among the fiduciary duties of corporate directors is the oversight function.  This requires the board to establish internal controls that are "reasonably designed" to provide to senior management and the board timely, accurate information sufficient to allow management and the board to reach informed judgments concerning the corporation’s compliance with law and its business performance.16 At a minimum, systemic failure of the board to exercise oversight —such as an utter failure to attempt to ensure the existence of a reasonable information and reporting system — will establish the lack of good faith that is a necessary condition to civil liability in private litigation.17  As part of their oversight role, corporate boards must ensure that management has a firm grasp on 	  
Copyright © 2013 WeComply, Inc. & Association of Corporate Counsel 
18   Corporate Compliance  
internal controls and risks through a robust governance, risk, and compliance (GRC) program that provides a strategic approach to integrating risk management, controls, assurance structures, and processes.  To ensure proper implementation of the program, corporate boards should consider supplementing audit committee oversight of financial and reporting functions with a separate compliance subcommittee composed of outside directors. The subcommittee should receive timely, accurate, and complete information regarding compliance issues arising from all business operations. 2. Compliance Managers/Officers  Organizations should centralize the management and enforcement of the compliance program in the person of a compliance officer.  Ideally, this individual will report directly to the organization's highest governing authority, but at a minimum the individual should meet regularly with the highest governing authority to provide updates and receive input on the program. The appointment of the compliance officer and his/her staff is critical to the success of the compliance program. To that end, when selecting a compliance officer, your company should consider the following:  ■ Reputation: Be sure to appoint as compliance officer an employee with an unassailable reputation for integrity and trustworthiness. Senior management should have a very public role in selecting the compliance officer. ■ Tact and Clout: Since enforcing compliance may involve questioning someone’s judgment and putting an end to activities that may be both popular and lucrative, the managers in charge of enforcing compliance must have sufficient tact and clout to carry out their functions. ■ Experience: Since a compliance officer enforces company policy, he/she must have enough experience, both in the company generally and as a manager, to be credible in the compliance job. ■ Functions: The compliance officer should be a full-time employee. If not, it may give the impression that the company is not fully committed to its compliance program. Smaller companies that may be unable to afford a full-time compliance officer should determine a percentage of time that a senior employee should spend on compliance duties and tie expectations to performance reviews. ■ Conflicts of Interest: An employee who could have conflicts of interest between his personal and professional duties—such as a financial officer of the corporation—should not be selected as the compliance officer. ■ Access to Experts: Since a compliance officer deals with a wide array of topics, the person should have sufficient contact with financial auditors, corporate counsel, information technology staff, environmental engineers, and other specialists regularly. ■ Attorneys as Compliance Officers: Attorneys with sufficient managerial skills may make good compliance officers. Boards should nevertheless consider placing the compliance function outside of the general counsel's office both to enhance its stature and to enable the compliance officer to directly interact with the board. The attorney has a higher risk of waiving the attorney-client privilege while he/she serves as the compliance officer, so the duties may best be filled by a non-lawyer or a person with a J.D. who is not serving the company as legal counsel.  	  
For	  more	  ACC	  InfoPAKs,	  please	  visit	  www.acc.com/infopaks	  	   	  	  
19 
■ Resources: In order to meet the many responsibilities of a compliance program, the compliance officer needs access to information and tools, including auditing and monitoring methods, incentives for whistleblowers, and information on compliance and business ethics. Outside experts may also be needed. Good sources of information include compliance journals, trade shows, and compliance training programs. ■ Funding: A compliance officer must have enough resources to do the job well. An underfunded compliance program runs the risk of being viewed as merely a “paper program” without teeth by courts, prosecutors, and regulators.  3. Role of Business Units  Although the compliance program should be centralized, the compliance officer may delegate responsibility to the business units for educating staff, promoting a compliance culture, and ensuring compliance with laws and regulations applicable to both the organization as a whole and the particular unit.  Each unit may be responsible for implementing the compliance program and integrating it into day-to-day activities within its range of operations but should remain answerable to the chief compliance officer. D. Program Implementation 1. Presentation The success of the compliance program depends largely on how it is presented to employees. The following are important elements for an effective presentation:  ■ Active Approach: Simply giving out handbooks or posting policies on the Intranet is not enough. Personal endorsements and training sessions are necessary to bring the program to the attention of employees. ■ Employee Certification: At the conclusion of the presentation, employees, managers, and executives should sign a statement saying that they have: (1) read the description of the compliance program; (2) understand the contents; and (3) agree to comply with all applicable laws and policies.  The certification might also include a representation that the individual is not aware of any violations of the company code or policies that have not already been reported, and provide a field for identifying any suspected violations if the individual cannot make that representation. ■ Document the Program’s Implementation: Comprehensive notes on the roll out of the program may be useful in refuting a claim that the program was a low priority. ■ An Ongoing Program: An effective compliance program is as dynamic as the business it supports. Methods must be included in the program to capture changes in federal and state law, in personnel, and in company policies. 2. Fairness Employees must perceive the compliance program as fair and even-handed. If employees think that the program only applies to low-level workers but exempts the executives, the program is doomed. To that end, a good compliance program should include the following:  	  
Copyright © 2013 WeComply, Inc. & Association of Corporate Counsel 
20   Corporate Compliance  
■ Notice: Proper notice of the program to all employees is the first step in demonstrating that the program applies across the entire spectrum of the company’s workforce. ■ Procedure: Employees who report misconduct must feel confident that their identities will be kept confidential to the extent possible. Likewise, employees who are the subject of misconduct reports must be given an opportunity to respond to the charge. Employees in unionized workplaces who are the subject of complaints must also be afforded “Weingarten Rights,” which give employees the opportunity to choose a coworker to act as a witness in disciplinary meetings.18 ■ Employee Advocate: A company might consider assigning an employee advocate to assist an accused employee.  In choosing an advocate, beware of conflict of interest concerns and make sure the person is as independent as possible from management. ■ Retaliation: The confidentiality of complainants is also important in preventing even a hint of retaliation. For complaints, a variety of anonymous methods may be used, including hotlines, suggestion boxes, conventional mail, or external handlers (companies with operations outside the U.S. must consider local law limitations on hotlines and anonymous reporting systems). Whatever method is used, no attempt should be made to identify a complainant who seeks to remain anonymous.  The company’s position that any retaliation is impermissible must be clearly conveyed; the SEC’s whistleblower rules permit the Commission to bring an enforcement action against companies for retaliating against SEC whistleblowers.  ■ Unions: If your company is under a union contract, check to see if the contract contains any provisions for filing grievances or procedural safeguards for the accused that may limit your company’s discretion to write its own procedures.  For locations outside the U.S., consider any requirements to consult with works councils or other similar organizations prior to implementing any discipline. 3. Legal Obligations and Business Goals One way to ensure that your compliance program is taken seriously and to demonstrate to employees, managers, and executives that compliance affects the bottom-line is to link compliance to specific business goals.  Emphasize the positive outcomes of careful attention to compliance and set compliance goals that will also enhance productivity. Encourage employees to understand the reasons behind the compliance program and support decision-making that reflects the goals of the compliance program. Let employees know that the component parts of the business are interrelated and that a violation in one area may give rise to obligations or other violations in another.  For example, a violation of data-privacy laws might damage the organization's reputation and result in a civil or criminal action. Whenever possible, point out the specific risks associated with ignoring the compliance program and show how compliance is part of the company’s business strategy and financial goals. 4. Incentives Providing incentives to employees to follow the compliance program is very important. The extent to which an employee is aware of the compliance program and follows its mandates should be part of the employee’s annual performance review. There is also a strategic benefit to  rewarding employees who closely follow the compliance program:  Providing incentives to employees who 	  
For	  more	  ACC	  InfoPAKs,	  please	  visit	  www.acc.com/infopaks	  	   	  	  
21 
follow the compliance program may help a company’s defense in any compliance-related litigation. Rewards for making the compliance program a priority could include:  ■ Pay raises; ■ Advancement; ■ Awards; ■ Words of encouragement; and ■ Senior executive recognition.  Caveat: In rewarding a whistleblower or an employee who prevents a violation, however, keep in mind the confidentiality obligations—such as keeping the whistleblower’s name secret—that are part of the compliance program.  5. Discipline An effective and credible compliance program must include consistent and clear procedures for enforcing and disciplining non-compliant employees and may also include disciplining of employees who know of but fail to report violations.  Disciplinary actions may include:  ■ Warnings or reprimands; ■ Probation; ■ Demotion; ■ Suspension; and ■ Termination. Any disciplinary action should be documented in the employee's personnel file, along with a statement of the reason for the disciplinary action.  The compliance officer should maintain a record of all disciplinary action and regularly report on disciplinary action to the organization's governing authority. E. Fostering a Culture of Accountability One of the most important points about a compliance program that can easily be overlooked is that everyone working for or on behalf of the company (including contractors, agents, etc.), regardless of level or position, must be held accountable. Although the level of accountability and the nature of responsibility vary considerably among positions, it is important to make clear just how far the responsibilities under the compliance program extend.  While executives carry the ultimate responsibility, managers and rank-and-file employees have responsibilities that are appropriate to their job duties. Workers on an assembly line are not responsible for certifying the accuracy of the company’s financial statements, and the CFO is not responsible for carefully assembling the component parts of the company’s product.  Nevertheless, both the assembly-line worker and the CFO have obligations under the compliance program that are relevant to their job duties and any training or information they receive should 	  
Copyright © 2013 WeComply, Inc. & Association of Corporate Counsel 
22   Corporate Compliance  
be tailored accordingly. 1. Direct Company-Wide Participation You can use a variety of methods to help instill a sense of responsibility in every employee in the company. Some examples include:  ■ Signed Statements: The company should have on file a signed statement from each executive, manager, employee, and consultant that declares that the undersigned has read and understood the code and policies of the company. ■ Anonymous Employee Surveys: An anonymous annual or semi-annual survey of employee perceptions of the compliance program is a good way to gauge whether your workforce views the compliance program with respect or cynicism. For example, if mid-level employees report that they feel bound by the code but management seems to ignore it, this issue needs to be addressed immediately. ■ Map Accountability: The positions in the company may be mapped out in order to designate specific areas of responsibility. Such mapping helps avoid diffusion of responsibility and demonstrates to everyone in the company who is accountable for which area. Every position should be included in the map and it should indicate where employees should go for advice on questionable conduct or to report misconduct. 2. Hotlines and Cultivating a Speak-Up Culture The Dodd-Frank and Sarbanes Oxley incentives to whistleblowers make it more important than ever to foster a culture in which everyone is encouraged and feels free to bring up compliance issues internally as a first step.  Moreover, the Sentencing Guidelines give the organization credit when its compliance program is the first to bring internal wrongdoing to light.   The organization's governing body should set the tone in this regard. That tone should filter down through upper and middle management in the form of reminders of the availability of multiple reporting mechanisms.    The organization needs to send a strong message that it will not tolerate retaliation against whistleblowers, be it in the form of termination, in more subtle forms such as exclusion from meetings or other events, curtailment of responsibilities, or disapprobation (e.g., “You’re just not a team player”).  3. Role of Supervising Managers ■ Informing Employees: Supervisory employees can be made responsible for informing lower-level employees of the important aspects of the compliance program and then reporting the results of these efforts to upper management. Since supervisors are the closest personnel to rank-and-file employees, they are in the best position to inform their workers of their responsibilities. ■ Establish Priorities: Many times, business incentives may be at odds with compliance incentives, such as when an employee pays a bribe to secure a big purchase order and meet a sales quota. Thus, when discussing business incentives and compliance 	  
For	  more	  ACC	  InfoPAKs,	  please	  visit	  www.acc.com/infopaks	  	   	  	  
23 
expectations, supervisors should firmly clarify that compliance takes priority over meeting financial goals. ■ Unreasonable Goals: Supervisors should be alert to situations where business goals and the compliance program conflict and employees can’t do their jobs without engaging in illegal behavior. Such a situation should quickly be brought to the attention of upper management. ■ Investigate Star Employees: If one employee seems to be struggling with the conflict between business goals and compliance expectations while another seems to thrive in the same situation, pay close attention to the star. While it may be tempting to take a hands-off approach to a highly productive employee, it may be worth asking the employee what methods he or she uses to be so productive when others are having trouble. In the successful employee, you may have someone whose working conditions don’t bring him into conflict with the compliance code—or you may have someone who exposes the company to litigation for noncompliance on a daily basis. ■ Independent Contractors: Since a company can be held legally responsible, in certain situations, for the actions of independent contractors and outside agents, a manager should do a compliance audit with contractors or agents of the company and treat them as employees for compliance purposes. 4. Hiring, Promoting, and Delegating Responsibly Potential new hires who have acted illegally or unethically in the past should raise a red flag, but an employer can go too far in denying opportunities based on compliance history and run afoul of discrimination laws in some jurisdictions.19  To avoid unlawful discrimination, consider applicants on a case-by-case basis with a cautious eye toward reports of their past dishonest behavior. If problems appear during a background check, investigate further to see if the specific bad acts warrant disqualification. While investigating, keep in mind the privacy laws that may be applicable to background checks and carefully balance a potential employee’s privacy with the company’s need for a trustworthy employee in a sensitive position. Take steps to keep confidential any information uncovered in the course of the search, and release the information only on a need-to-know basis.   When there is an allegation against a current employee for a code violation, you may need to do one or more of the following things:  ■ Suspend the employee from his or her duties until the internal investigation is completed; ■ Suspend an employee who is involved in debarment proceedings until the debarment is resolved; ■ Terminate an employee who has been convicted or debarred based on valid job-related reasons; or ■ Transfer or terminate an individual in a sensitive position who has demonstrated a lack of due care in compliance activities.  A company should never hire a person of questionable integrity for a sensitive job, including all 	  
Copyright © 2013 WeComply, Inc. & Association of Corporate Counsel 
24   Corporate Compliance  
“substantial authority personnel” positions in the company. The  Guidelines define “substantial authority personnel” as employees “who within the scope of their authority exercise a substantial measure of discretion in acting on behalf of an organization. The term includes high-level personnel of the organization, individuals who exercise substantial supervisory authority (e.g., a plant manager or a sales manager), and any other individuals who, although not a part of an organization’s management, nevertheless exercise substantial discretion when acting within the scope of their authority (e.g., an individual with authority in an organization to negotiate or set price levels or an individual authorized to negotiate or approve significant contracts). Whether an individual falls within this category must be determined on a case-by-case basis”20   Many rank-and-file positions in areas such as accounting and finance are also sensitive but are not considered “substantial authority” positions because the rank-and-file employees have supervisors who serve as a check on their discretion. Nonetheless, a company should always be careful even when hiring for lower-level positions.  	  
For	  more	  ACC	  InfoPAKs,	  please	  visit	  www.acc.com/infopaks	  	   	  	  
25 
IV. Training21  The Guidelines require periodic communication to everyone covered by the compliance program through "effective training programs and otherwise disseminating information," as appropriate.  Effective compliance training should: (1) inform about the code's principles, relevant laws and regulations, and company policy; and (2) apply these principles, laws/regulations and policies to hypothetical situations. A. Training Courses: Subject Matter  The Guidelines are silent on the type, amount, and frequency of training.  Keep in mind that government offices of certain industries suggest minimum training requirements,22 and changes in laws or regulations that apply to your business may necessitate more frequent or special training sessions. Training requirements may also be specific to an employee position.  For example, California, Connecticut, and Maine each mandate a minimum amount of sexual harassment training for supervisory positions.  In any case, providing training courses in applicable areas of law and policy are an important part of proving the effectiveness of the compliance program.  In deciding which areas of law and policy to cover in training courses, consider the areas of law discussed in Section II.B. of this InfoPAK.  There will be areas of law that apply to all domestic workplaces, such as immigration laws, privacy laws, and discrimination and harassment laws. In addition, there may be industry-specific laws. Finally, there may be laws that apply to international business, such as export controls and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.  There may be other policy areas that relate to a variety of laws that might be appropriate and necessary subjects for training. For example, a company policy and corresponding training course covering the creation, distribution, retention, storage, and destruction of both a company’s internal and publicly accessible documents may be used to avoid unlawful document destruction during investigations or litigation.  Training may also include subject matter that improves operations or protects the company from loss (e.g., on the confidentiality of information or information security) or other training that may not involve a particular law, but may as a practical matter, be something a company would want anyone working for or on its behalf to know.  An organization should incorporate a risk-based approach to managing compliance based on an assessment of the organization's vulnerability to various types of risk, and the compliance training should reflect this assessment.  B. Teaching Techniques Conveying the fundamentals of law, regulation, and policy is important but is often dull.  Whether you devise training courses in-house or select courses from a training provider, take into account the following techniques designed to keep your employees’ attention:  	  
Copyright © 2013 WeComply, Inc. & Association of Corporate Counsel 
26   Corporate Compliance  
■ Graphics: Colorful illustrations can liven up the driest subject matter. Graphics break up long text into manageable pieces so the reader is less likely to feel overburdened or inundated with information. ■ Bullet Points, Bolding, and Shading: Bullet points, eye-catching fonts, and lists also break up a text and make it easier for an audience to understand and absorb information. ■ Multimedia: Video and audio presentations are also attention-getting devices. Video and audio materials allow people who aren’t at the training—such as the company’s CEO—to convey a greeting, endorsement, or words of support. ■ Hypothetical Examples and Anecdotes: Hypothetical examples, “war stories,” and anecdotes can humanize a training session and convert the training material from black-and-white text on a page to real life. ■ Interactive Material: Your training program should offer more than mere passive reading or lecturing. Games and quizzes allow for interaction and keep the reader entertained while learning the material. Computer-generated quizzes can provide explanations and corrections instantaneously, and allow the participants to learn the material while they’re being quizzed. C. Training Course Content ■ Customizing: Your training should be customized along with the rest of the program. Compliance training should be tailored to your company’s risk analysis and to the departments being trained; it should be dynamic and flexible enough to respond to changes in the law or company policies. ■ Quality: If you decide to use an outside vendor for your training, review its credentials thoroughly. Ask for an advance copy of any training materials and analyze the content before the training session to see if it is current, comprehensive, and clear. Make sure the training materials meet industry standards for instructional design. ■ Language Conversion: If your company does business in a number of different countries around the world, check to see if outside training materials can be translated easily. Cross-lingual adaptability should be included in your training administrator’s budget. ■ Tracking System: If you use an outside vendor, make sure your provider has a tracking system that shows that your employees have undergone training. 	  
For	  more	  ACC	  InfoPAKs,	  please	  visit	  www.acc.com/infopaks	  	   	  	  
27 
V. Enforcement of the Code and Policies Enforcing compliance involves both deterrence and detection. In order to address the effectiveness of both elements, a company should audit and monitor its activities to verify that the design of the compliance program is effective. A. Monitoring ■ Random, Informal Monitoring: Supervisory personnel should do routine “walk-arounds” to determine both what is going right and what is lacking in your program. Such informal monitoring can provide a snapshot of business operations that are lost in more formal audits. ■ Formal, Systematic Monitoring: Especially in larger companies, monitoring that is more formal and systematic may be required for those areas that have been highlighted in your company’s risk assessment (see Section III,A.1.). For these areas, checklists may be required. For example, in an area where safety violations have occurred in the past, compliance personnel may need to periodically determine if items on a checklist—such as whether or not employees are wearing the proper protective gear and are operating machinery in the correct way—are part of employees’ day-to-day conduct. ■ Anonymous Reporting Mechanisms: Providing hotlines, drop boxes, and similar devices that employees can use to submit anonymous complaints is essential. Genuine anonymity, as well as the perception of anonymity, is critical. Since some employees may feel uncomfortable even having their voice heard on a hotline and others may feel skittish about having their reports traced by computer, it’s best to have a variety of methods available for reporting violations.  Remember that in some locations outside the U.S. there are other limitations on the use of hotlines and online reporting, including consulting with works councils or other similar employee representative groups prior to implementing a hotline. ■ Redundancy: Particularly sensitive areas, such as accounting, may call for redundant, independent monitoring to detect cover-ups or falsification. ■ Checks and Balances: To avoid abuses of power in the system, use some kind of system of checks and balances. The program should anticipate occurrences of noncompliance on the part of executives, compliance officials, etc., and have procedures in place for enforcement and investigation in these cases. Employees should also have alternative individuals to whom they can report noncompliance in cases where they suspect is the employee’s supervisor or other individual designated to handle noncompliance reports. ■ Reassessments: If criminal conduct that could reasonably have been prevented is discovered, your compliance procedures need to be reassessed. ■ Documents: Keep a thorough record of the steps taken to monitor compliance. Any business practice that proceeds without periodic audit is likely to flounder, so you should keep track of the efforts that your company takes to ensure the success of the compliance program. Additionally, documents recording compliance efforts may be useful for bolstering a company’s defense during litigation.  In this area, as in all other 	  
Copyright © 2013 WeComply, Inc. & Association of Corporate Counsel 
28   Corporate Compliance  
areas where documents are retained, the risk analysis data should be consulted for the most effective and strategic way to retain records.  ■ Flexibility: Techniques used for deterrence and detection may have to conform to the circumstances. Confirming suspected misconduct may require unannounced inspections or “midnight raids”; on the other hand, a mere sense that “something isn’t quite right” can be handled with less dramatic techniques. Remember that due diligence requires compliance officials to respond quickly when there is an indication of misconduct. ■ Privacy: Excessive monitoring can lead to unnecessary invasions of privacy that can also violate the law. Before implementing any monitoring, make sure it is narrowly tailored to discover only work-related misconduct. If you intend to monitor employee social-media usage, make sure you have a policy in place, in advance, that advises employees that you may do so. ■ Regular Reporting: Regular reports of things required by law—such as workplace injuries or safety hazards—may require monitoring to make sure the reports are accurate and that a problem is not being overlooked. B. Responding to Suspicious Conduct Your compliance program should include techniques that enable a quick and efficient response to suspicious conduct.  ■ Speedy Response: If an allegation of misconduct is made, compliance employees should have a plan of action that begins with a quick response. Inform upper management as soon as possible and, if relevant and appropriate, interview witnesses. Depending on the situation, it may be necessary to suspend the person accused of misconduct until the investigation is complete. ■ Consistency: Responses to allegations must be consistent and predictable. For the compliance program to be effective, employees must feel that a response to misconduct will be handled the same if the alleged perpetrator is the janitor or the CEO. ■ Visibility: Everyone in the company should know the names and contact information of the compliance officers as well as the procedures for reporting misconduct. ■ Tracking Reports: A company may want to have a database devoted to tracking reports, investigations, and violations. This information can help the company’s risk analysis, show patterns of abuse, and let the compliance staff know what areas of the business need particular attention. The database can also be helpful in providing feedback to complainants and letting them know that their complaint is being investigated.  Remember that some countries place limits on the amount of time a record of an investigation may be retained by the company.  Make sure that you understand local law requirements related to records retention. C. Investigations and Fact-Gathering Investigations and fact-gathering are complex aspects of a compliance program that require adequate resources and procedures that preserve legal privileges.  Cross border investigations provide additional, significant investigation and record collection challenges and should only be conducted following the advice of counsel familiar with the laws of the countries involved. 	  
For	  more	  ACC	  InfoPAKs,	  please	  visit	  www.acc.com/infopaks	  	   	  	  
29 
1. Resources and Procedures ■ Investigative Personnel: Investigating a violation requires knowledge, skill, tact, and objectivity. In-house counsel is ideally situated to perform these tasks but the lawyers may also need the help of financial, accounting, and regulatory personnel. As a way to add credibility to the compliance program, employees should be fully aware of the investigative procedures to be used when misconduct is suspected. ■ Physical Resources: Investigative personnel should have adequate resources available to them. An under-funded and under-staffed compliance program may be viewed as a sham by the courts. ■ Independence: It is essential that investigative personnel are independent from the people they need to investigate. If an executive of a large company with full-time investigative personnel is suspected of a violation, outside personnel may be needed to perform the investigation. Remember, too, that investigative personnel may be required to submit to independent review of their work. ■ Record-Keeping: Adequate records of investigations can be a valuable addition to a company’s risk assessment and the records can be used as evidence that suspected violations are being addressed. The records should contain specific allegations, times, dates, identities, and procedures undertaken. An investigation report template is a good way to ensure uniform reports written by a range of different investigators. Follow normal record-retention policies and make exceptions where an investigation warrants retention of documents that would under normal circumstances be destroyed; destruction of records in the course of an investigation may be considered obstruction of justice. ■ Advise Interviewees: When an attorney hired by the company conducts an interview with company personnel, the interviewee should be advised that the attorney works for the company and not the interviewee, that the attorney-client privilege protecting the interview is owned by the company, and that the decision whether to waive the attorney-client privilege is within the sole discretion of the company. ■ Unions: Companies subject to collective bargaining agreements may be under obligation to have a union representative present at interviews of employees suspected of misconduct. Organized labor laws outside the United States vary considerably, and companies should seek local legal advice in connection with interviews of any unionized employees abroad. 2. Attorney-Client and Work-Product Privileges Care should be taken to maintain legal privileges to the extent possible during an investigation. A company may consider the following measures to protect these privileges in the course of an investigation:  ■ Corporate counsel should conduct the investigation, directing employees to cooperate with him or her and explaining any legal privileges that attach to the situation. ■ Investigative documents should be marked “Privileged and Confidential: Attorney’s Work Product.” ■ All communication, both oral and written, should be kept confidential and released only on a need-to-know basis to persons within the scope of the privilege. 	  
Copyright © 2013 WeComply, Inc. & Association of Corporate Counsel 
30   Corporate Compliance  
■ The investigation should be formalized by making a request and obtaining authorization from upper management to proceed. ■ Interviews should distinguish between opinion and ordinary work product. ■ Legal privileges should be referenced in reports and summaries of the investigation.  General counsel conducting investigations in foreign jurisdictions should become familiar with the parameters of the attorney-client privilege at the international level and use this knowledge to devise strategies to protect the organization's information in foreign jurisdictions.23 Although almost all jurisdictions provide some type of attorney-client privilege, the extent of the protections varies widely, as does the legal definition of such terms as "confidential," "privileged persons," and “for the purposes of seeking legal advice.”  In a recent competition case, the European Court of Justice held that the attorney-client privilege does not protect communications with in-house counsel. 24 D. Resolving Violations If, after a proper investigation, you have concluded that a violation of company policy or state or federal law has taken place, one or more of these actions may be appropriate:  ■ Assess the activities and legal implications; ■ Determine whether the misconduct is isolated or part of a pattern involving others; ■ Report the offense directly to the organization's highest governing body if it is in violation of state or federal law;  ■ Choose the appropriate disciplinary action, including termination from employment (if a collective bargaining agreement exists, confer with union representatives); ■ Arrange for re-training of the individuals involved, and consider whether additions or changes are needed, and if so, consider re-training for all employees in similar or related positions; ■ Introduce changes in company practices that will make a recurrence less likely; ■ Determine who will be responsible for implementing changes; ■ Implement special short-term monitoring of the changes; ■ Improve detection techniques; and ■ Document remedial measures.  E. Internal Escalation to Senior Management  A successful compliance program must include clear procedures for reporting violations and ensure that the compliance officer receives all information regarding all violations.  Employees should be made to understand that if they are aware of a supervisor's violation, they may report it directly to the compliance officer without fear of retaliation.  The compliance officer should notify the governing body immediately upon substantiating serious or top-level management compliance 	  
For	  more	  ACC	  InfoPAKs,	  please	  visit	  www.acc.com/infopaks	  	   	  	  
31 
violations.    F. Disclosures The seriousness of the misconduct could warrant external reporting or trigger reporting requirements. 1. Mandatory Disclosures Compliance personnel should familiarize themselves with laws whose violations require reporting. Often, the reporting requirement includes only a short time-frame to report misconduct, which is another reason why compliance personnel should not delay when misconduct is suspected. 2. Voluntary Disclosures The Guidelines specify that voluntary reporting of illegal conduct may result in reduced penalties, and that failure to report illegal conduct may cause the organization to forfeit the credit toward reducing penalties that it would otherwise have earned for having an effective compliance program. Thus, it is worth considering reporting conduct even when you are not legally required to do so. Companies should consider the following factors, with advice of counsel and other key stakeholders, when making this determination:  ■ Consequences: Will failure to disclose result in criminal penalties, civil liabilities, or debarment under government programs? ■ PR: Will the company gain valuable good-will and favorable public relations, or be punished with negative publicity, by publicly reporting misconduct? ■ Government Agencies: Can the misconduct be reported to more than one government agency? Is there a measurable difference in the response that each agency might make (i.e., are the penalties that each agency has under its discretion different?) ■ Legal Incentives: Does the law in question provide incentives for voluntary disclosure? ■ Likelihood of Independent Discovery: What are the chances that someone inside or outside of the company will discover the misconduct and report it to the authorities in a way that will make the company look blind, foolish, or both? ■ Attorney-Client Privileges: Does the attorney-client privilege attach to a voluntary disclosure? ■ Assigning Disclosure Duties: Who should take the responsibility for voluntarily disclosing the misconduct? Should the disclosure come from the top (such as the CEO or CFO) or should someone with specialized expertise (such as a safety inspector) make the disclosure? ■ Scope of Disclosure: What is the scope of the disclosure? How much has to be told or should be told? Is there a way to limit further inquiry? ■ Conflict of Interest: Does the person making the disclosure have a conflict of interest? After disclosure, there are a number of steps that should be taken to resolve the misconduct. You may want to do one or more of the following:  	  
Copyright © 2013 WeComply, Inc. & Association of Corporate Counsel 
32   Corporate Compliance  
 • Accept Responsibility: According to the Guidelines, a guilty plea prior to trial, in addition to an admission of involvement, will generally constitute an acceptance of responsibility, which in turn, normally calls for a reduced penalty. Alternatively, a company may choose to go to trial to raise constitutional claims or argue the inapplicability of the law, but can still receive a reduced penalty because of the company’s willingness to accept responsibility for the misconduct. • Cooperate with Authorities: If a company elects voluntary disclosure after a criminal investigation has commenced, the company is not entitled to any benefits. Nevertheless, the company can still win public good-will for the company. Conversely, failure to cooperate with a criminal investigation can amount to obstruction of justice in certain situations. • Take Remedial Measures: When illegal conduct is discovered, the company has a responsibility to take steps to correct the harm and implement strategies to prevent a future occurrence; failure to do so could be viewed as a willful disregard for the law. If prompt action is not possible, a long-term plan with reasonable deadlines for compliance should be written and published. • Protect the Public: Even if a law does not require disclosure, a company is well-advised to make disclosure if the violation affects the public. For example, a threat to public health that a company knew about but did not report could give rise to tort liability and even criminal sanctions depending on the violation. • Make Use of Prosecutorial Discretion: A company is liable for the conduct of its employees if the conduct in question is done in the scope of the employee’s job and for corporate gain; however, if the corporation reports the violation and cooperates with authorities, prosecutors may have the discretion not to bring charges against the company. G. Evaluating Compliance Procedures ■ Check Results: For example, a firm that must comply with environmental regulations is obligated to check emissions levels at its factories and manufacturing sites as well as at “downstream” locations. ■ Review Program Operations: Review methods of investigation and information- gathering, the pace of response to an allegation, and the effectiveness of preventing recurring abuses. The review should determine if the program has been a success (for which credit should be given to the relevant people) or a failure (in which case a re-assessment of the program should take place). ■ Check the Checkers: In evaluating a compliance program, pay attention to subtle signs that suggest that compliance personnel might have been corrupted. For example, a compliance program in a large company that reports no allegations of misconduct for an entire year may have lost its independence and objectivity or may simply be too lenient abo ■ Random Sampling: If a company is so large and multifaceted that a review of all compliance programs is not feasible, random sampling or spot-checking may be a reasonable alternative. 	  
For	  more	  ACC	  InfoPAKs,	  please	  visit	  www.acc.com/infopaks	  	   	  	  
33 
■ Frequency: The frequency of review depends on the results of an initial review. If the results are sub-par, the program needs frequent reviews and modifications until the results improve. If results are mixed, the reviews and modifications should focus only on those parts of the program that are under-performing. ■ External and Cross-Auditing: At times—for example, when compliance officers are engaging in or tolerating non-compliance—internal audits may not be practical. Using outside personnel for an external audit or having compliance officers from another department do a cross-audit are possible options. ■ Communication: Reports of misconduct must be handled with care. Since these reports can be revealed during litigation, the documents must be written in a way that poses no threat to a company in the event of pre-trial discovery. ■ Real-Time Monitoring: For certain sensitive or high-risk areas of compliance, real-time monitoring may be necessary. ■ Mergers and Acquisitions: As part of due diligence in the event of a proposed merger and acquisition, the acquiring company should review the compliance program of the to-be-acquired company to see if the programs conflict or converge. ■ Confidentiality and Legal Privilege Protection: As discussed in Section III.A.1., b, take steps to maximize attorney-client privilege, work-product protection, and other legal protections and privileges from the outset of a compliance program’s implementation. Even some actions meant to protect compliance activities, such as voluntary disclosure to a government agency, may effectively waive the privilege protection. (See also Section V.F.2.) ■ Learn From Past Violations: Learn from your mistakes. Use past violations as a guide for improving the compliance program. Determine the cause of the violations and how they went undetected or unreported. Figure-out ways to keep these violations from happening again. ■ Follow-Ups: Every violation of state or federal law or company policy requires at least an informal, if not formal, reexamination of the compliance program. Serious breaches of the law may call for major personnel changes. 	  
Copyright © 2013 WeComply, Inc. & Association of Corporate Counsel 
34   Corporate Compliance  
VI. About the Author  WeComply, a Thomson Reuters business, is a leading provider of ethics and compliance training for employees in all industries and offers more than 100 courses that are easily customized and available in multiple languages both online and offline.   Companies can host courses in their own Learning Management System (LMS) or use WeComply's patented system, which provides centralized administration, custom reporting and other advanced features. WeComply is the exclusive compliance training partner of the ACC Alliance and forms part of the Thomson Reuters Accelus offering of market-leading solutions for enterprise Governance, Risk and Compliance (GRC) management. For more information, visit http://www.wecomply.com	  
	  For more ACC InfoPAKs, please visit www.acc.com/infopak    
35 
VII.  Additional Resources A. ACC Resources 1. Docket Articles Teresa T. Kennedy, Seth M. Cohen, and Charles A. Riepenhoff, Jr, “About that Compliance Thing: Creating and Evaluating Effective Compliance Programs,” ACC Docket 22, no. 10 (Dec. 2004): 24-43, available at http://www.acc.com/legalresources/resource.cfm?show=17013.  James A. Nortz, “Business Ethics: Awaken the Zombies!” ACC Docket 24, no. 7 (Jul. 2006): 86, available at http://www.acc.com/legalresources/resource.cfm?show=14645.  James A. Nortz, “Business Ethics: Compliance and Ethics Compliance Metrics,” ACC Docket 25, no. 5 (June 2007): 92-93, available at http://www.acc.com/legalresources/resource.cfm?show=14499.  James A. Nortz, “Business Ethics: Compliance & Ethics Officers–Profession or Passing Fad?” ACC Docket 25, no. 3 (Mar. 2007): 94, available at http://www.acc.com/legalresources/resource.cfm?show=14533.  James A. Nortz, “Business Ethics: Defining the CECO’s Role,” ACC Docket 26, no. 1 (Jan./Feb. 2008): 102-103, available at http://www.acc.com/legalresources/resource.cfm?show=14389.  James A. Nortz, “Business Ethics: Ethics Resource Center Sounds Alarm with its 2007 National Business Ethics Survey,” ACC Docket 26, no. 2 (Mar. 2008): 74-75, available at http://www.acc.com/legalresources/resource.cfm?show=14371. 
 James A. Nortz, “Business Ethics: Lessons from the Cockpit,” ACC Docket 26, no. 5 (May 2008): 78, available at http://www.acc.com/legalresources/resource.cfm?show=14332.  James A. Nortz, “Business Ethics: Put Some Life Into Your Program,” ACC Docket 24, no. 2 (Feb. 2004): 56-69, available at http://www.acc.com/legalresources/resource.cfm?show=17057. 	  James A. Nortz, “Business Ethics: Re-Wiring the Company for Compliance and Ethics,” ACC Docket 24, no. 2 (Feb. 2006): 75, available at http://www.acc.com/legalresources/resource.cfm?show=14716.   James A. Nortz, “Business Ethics: The Alphabet Soup of Risk Management,” ACC Docket 25, no. 8 (Sept. 2007): 98-99, available at http://www.acc.com/legalresources/resource.cfm?show=14456.  James A. Nortz, “Business Ethics: Wielding the Invisible Hand,” ACC Docket 25, no. 10 (Nov. 2007): 82, available at http://www.acc.com/legalresources/resource.cfm?show=14409.  “Conquering Compliance Training: How Three Companies Use online Programs for Better Results,” ACC Docket 23, no. 4 (Apr. 2005): 52-56, available at http://www.acc.com/legalresources/resource.cfm?show=16989.  Dinah Seiver, “Setting Up a Compliance Department from Scratch,” ACC Docket 23, no. 9 (Oct. 2005): 22-31, available at   
Copyright © 2013 WeComply, Inc. & Association of Corporate Counsel 
36   Corporate Compliance 
http://www.acc.com/legalresources/resource.cfm?show=20822.  Joseph C. Hutchison, “The Acid Test for Your Compliance Program,” ACC Docket 24, no. 4 (Apr. 2006): 72-84, available at http://www.acc.com/legalresources/resource.cfm?show=14693.  Marya M. Rose , M. Angella Castille, and Virginia Harper Ho “The Challenges of Global Compliance in Emerging Markets,” ACC Docket 25, no. 7 (Aug. 2007): 52-82, available at http://www.acc.com/legalresources/resource.cfm?show=14459.  Alan Greenwood and Steven Lauer, “The Global Compliance Landscape: A Resource File,” ACC Docket 23, no. 9 (Oct. 2005): 32-49, available at http://www.acc.com/legalresources/resource.cfm?show=20817.  Karen Wishart, “Tips & Insights: Exploring Issues in Compliance with Karen Wishart,” ACC Docket 25, no. 7 (Sept. 2007): 132-138, available at http://www.acc.com/legalresources/resource.cfm?show=14466.  2. Program Materials Donna Costa, Robert S. Lavet, & Karen J. Sharp, “Antitrust Compliance Training,” ACC 2006 Annual Meeting, Session 409, available at http://www.acc.com/legalresources/resource.cfm?show=20123.  Philip P. Crowley, “Automated & Online Compliance Training: The Future Is Now,” ACC 2005 Annual Meeting, Session 105, available at http://www.acc.com/legalresources/resource.cfm?show=20419.  Monica Caston ET AL., “Best Practices for 
Building an Effective Corporate Compliance Program,” ACC 2005 Annual Meeting, Session 912, available at http://www.acc.com/legalresources/resource.cfm?show=20253.  Thomas C. Baxter ET AL., “Closing Program: In-House Ethics-What Would You Do?”ACC 2005 Annual Meeting, Session 999, available at http://www.acc.com/legalresources/resource.cfm?show=20251.  Jeffrey L. Antoon ET AL., “Collaboration on Compliance,” ACC 2005 Annual Meeting, Session 309, available at http://www.acc.com/legalresources/resource.cfm?show=20312.  Indrani Franchini, “Compliance Readiness–Avoiding Surprises,” ACC 2007 Annual Meeting, Session 004, available at http://www.acc.com/legalresources/resource.cfm?show=19981.  Michael M. Wiseman and Marc R. Trevino, “Corporate Professional Responsibility: Presentation Guide and Legal Authorities,” ACC 2005, available at http://www.acc.com/legalresources/resource.cfm?show=20360.  “Designing a ‘Best Practices’ Plan to Ensure Financial Compliance,” ACC 2007 Annual Meeting, Session CL01, available at http://www.acc.com/legalresources/resource.cfm?show=19862.  James B. Comey, “Establishing and Sustaining an Ethical Culture in a Global Organization,” ACC 2007 CLO ThinkTank Series, available at  http://www.acc.com/community/clo/thinktanks/Establishing-and-Sustaining-an-Ethical-Culture-in-a-Global-Organization.cfm  Andrea Bonime-Blanc ET AL., “Firespotting Key Compliance Issues for Your Company,” ACC 2005 Annual Meeting, Session 709, available at 	  
	  For more ACC InfoPAKs, please visit www.acc.com/infopak    
37 
http://www.acc.com/legalresources/resource.cfm?show=20327.  Hanna Hasl-Kelchner ET AL., “How to Manage Smoking Guns: The Ethical, Legal, & Practical Guidelines for Document Retention,” ACC 2005 Annual Meeting, Session 809, available at http://www.acc.com/legalresources/resource.cfm?show=20267.  Haydee Olinger ET AL.,“In-House Counsel Perspective: Managing a Compliance and Ethic Program in a Global Environment,” ACC 2008 Corporate Counsel University, Session 700, available at  http://www.acc.com/legalresources/resource.cfm?show=19803.  “Law Department’s Role in Developing and Implementing Compliance and Ethics Programs,” ACC 2005 Leading Practice Profiles Series, available at http://www.acc.com/legalresources/resource.cfm?show=16802.  James T. Bellerjeau ET AL., “Navigating Global Compliance: Establishing Rules for Taking the High Road in the Borderless Corporation,” ACC 2006 Annual Meeting, Session 310, available at http://www.acc.com/legalresources/resource.cfm?show=20132.  “Privacy and Data Protection: What Companies are Doing,” ACC 2006 Leading Practice Profiles Series, available at http://www.acc.com/legalresources/resource.cfm?show=16798.  Heather Badami ET AL., “Structuring a Corporate Compliance Function,” ACC 2006 Corporate Counsel University, Session 702, available at http://www.acc.com/legalresources/resource.cfm?show=20212.  Susan Hackett, “Top of Mind: What General 
Counsel Are Thinking/Worried About,” ACC 2007 Annual Meeting, Session 211, available at http://www.acc.com/legalresources/resource.cfm?show=19954.  Karl L. Chen ET AL., “Why It’s Important for the Law Department to be Involved with the Compliance Function,” ACC 2006 Annual Meeting, Session 305, available at http://www.acc.com/legalresources/resource.cfm?show=20137.  3. Sample Forms and Policies Compliance And Ethics Program Checklist, available at  http://www.acc.com/legalresources/resource.cfm?show=13897.  Compliance Helpline Policy, available at http://www.acc.com/legalresources/resource.cfm?show=13800.  Compliance Tools, available at http://www.acc.com/legalresources/resource.cfm?show=13033.  Ethics Advisory Committee Sample Minutes, available at http://www.acc.com/legalresources/resource.cfm?show=12916.  Ethics and Compliance Annual Plan, available at http://www.acc.com/legalresources/resource.cfm?show=12919.  Ethics and Compliance Manager available at http://www.acc.com/legalresources/resource.cfm?show=13882.  Ethics and Compliance Work Plan available at http://www.acc.com/legalresources/resource.cfm?show=12920.  Ethics Charter, available at http://www.acc.com/legalresources/resour 
Copyright © 2013 WeComply, Inc. & Association of Corporate Counsel 
38   Corporate Compliance 
ce.cfm?show=12997.  Financial Code of Ethics, available at http://www.acc.com/legalresources/resource.cfm?show=13771. 
 Sample Corporate Compliance and Ethics Plan, available at http://www.acc.com/legalresources/resource.cfm?show=13009.    	  
	  For more ACC InfoPAKs, please visit www.acc.com/infopak    
39 
VIII. Model Code of Conduct  The following is a Model Code of Conduct created by the law firm of Proskauer Rose LLP: Xyz Corporation Code of Conduct A. General Statement of Business Philosophy The commitment to excellence is fundamental to the philosophy of XYZ Company. This commitment to excellence means that employees share a common set of objectives and benefit from the achievement of those objectives.  One essential objective is our conviction to uphold ethical standards in all our corporate activities. These standards apply to all the Company's activities in every market that it serves. The purpose of this Code of Conduct is to strengthen the Company's ethical climate and to provide basic guidelines for situations in which ethical issues arise.   We strive to do business with customers and suppliers of sound business character and reputation. We do not knowingly support any public or private organization which espouses discriminatory policies or practices. We expect all our employees to perform their work with honesty, truthfulness and integrity.  It is the policy of the Company to comply with all applicable laws, including, without limitation, employment, discrimination, health, safety, antitrust, securities and environmental laws. No director, officer, executive or manager of the Company has authority to violate any law or to direct another employee or any other person to violate any law on behalf of the Company.   Each employee and non-employee director of the Company is, and will be held, responsible for the observance of this Code of Conduct. If any employee has questions about any section of this Code of Conduct, he or she should direct all questions to his or her immediate supervisor, the XYZ Company Compliance Officer, Human Resources, or the Legal Department. If an employee becomes aware that another employee has violated this Code of Conduct, he or she is obligated to report it in accordance with procedures set forth below. No one has the authority to retaliate against an employee who reports a possible violation. Failure to comply with any of the provisions of this Code of Conduct subjects the employee to disciplinary measures up to and including termination.  B. Policies and Practices 1.  Conflicts of Interest A conflict of interest may arise in any situation in which an employee's loyalties are divided between business interests that, to some degree, are incompatible with the interests of the Company. All such conflicts should be avoided. The Company demands absolute integrity from all its employees and will not tolerate any conduct that falls short of that standard. The Company expects that no employee will knowingly place himself or herself in a position that would have the appearance of being, or could be construed to be, in conflict with the interests of the Company. Some of the more sensitive areas of conflicts of interest and the Company's related guidelines are  
Copyright © 2013 WeComply, Inc. & Association of Corporate Counsel 
40   Corporate Compliance 
as follows:  a.  Accepting Gifts and Entertainment The Company's aim is to deter givers of gifts from seeking or receiving special favors from Company employees. (For guidelines concerning the giving of gifts to, or entertainment of, customers and others by Company employees, employees are referred to paragraph F., below) Accepting any gift of more than nominal value or entertainment that is more than a routine social amenity can appear to be an attempt to influence the recipient into favoring a particular customer, vendor, consultant or the like. To avoid the reality and the appearance of improper relations with current or prospective customers, vendors and consultants, employees should observe the following guidelines when deciding whether or not to accept gifts or entertainment:  i. Gifts Gifts such as merchandise or products, as well as personal services or favors may not be accepted unless they have a value of less than $50. This dollar limit is intended to serve as a guideline, and employees are urged to consult with the Compliance Officer before accepting any gifts of more than nominal value. Gifts of any amount may never be solicited. A gift of cash or securities may never be accepted.   In some international business transactions, it is customary and lawful for business leaders in a host country to give gifts to Company employees. These gifts may be of more than nominal value and under the circumstances returning the gifts or paying for them may be an affront to the giver. In such a situation, the gift must be reported to the employee's supervisor. In all other instances where gifts cannot be returned and offering to pay for them would adversely affect continuing business relationships, supervisors must be notified. In some cases, the gift may be retained by the Company, at its sole discretion, and not the individual.  ii. Entertainment  Normal business entertainment such as lunch, dinner, theater, a sporting event, and the like, is appropriate if of a reasonable nature and in the course of a meeting or another occasion, the purpose of which is to hold bona fide business discussions or to foster better business relations. All such entertainment should be reported (in advance, if practical) by the employee to his or her supervisor. No employee may accept tickets or invitations to entertainment when the prospective host will not be present at the event with the employee.  b.  Outside Activities It is the policy of the Company that no employee is to have a "free-lance" or "moonlighting" activity that will materially encroach on the time or attention which should be devoted to the employee's duties; adversely affect the quality of work performed; compete with the Company's activities; imply sponsorship or support by the Company of the outside employment or organization; or adversely affect the good name of the Company. All free-lance or moonlighting activities require the prior written approval of the employee's supervisor. Employees who free-lance or moonlight may not use Company time, facilities, resources, or supplies for such work.  c. Interests in Other Businesses Unless approved in advance by an employee's supervisor, neither an employee nor his or her spouse, domestic partner, or any other member of the employee's immediate family may directly or indirectly have a financial interest (whether as an investor, lender, employee or other service 	  
	  For more ACC InfoPAKs, please visit www.acc.com/infopak    
41 
provider) in a competitor, or in a customer or supplier if that employee or his or her subordinates deal directly or indirectly with that customer or supplier in the course of his or her job with the Company.  d. Use of Company Property and Information All employees are responsible for the proper use of the Company's physical resources and property, as well as its proprietary and other confidential information. Unless otherwise prohibited by an employee's supervisor, reasonable incidental use of a Company telephone, computer or other equipment is permitted.   i. Company Property and Facilities  Company property, facilities or physical resources may not be used for solicitation or distribution activities which are not related to an employee's services to the Company, except for charitable activities that have been approved in writing in advance by the Company. Employees may not solicit any other employee during working time, nor may employees distribute literature in work areas at any time. Under no circumstances may an employee disturb the work of others to solicit or distribute literature to them during their working time. Persons not employed by the Company may not solicit Company employees for any purposes on Company premises.   Any employee found to be engaging in, or attempting, theft of any property of the Company, including documents, equipment, intellectual property, personal property of other employees, cash or any other items of value will be liable to immediate summary dismissal and possible criminal proceedings against them. All employees have a responsibility to report any theft or attempted theft to the Company's management.  ii. Company Proprietary and Other Confidential Information  The Company operates in many different and extremely competitive markets. Every employee should be aware that in any competitive environment, proprietary information and trade secrets must be safeguarded in the same way that all other important Company assets are protected. Information concerning pricing, products and services that are being developed, and other such trade secrets, including information pertaining to any prospective Company acquisition or divestiture, must be held in the strictest confidence, and reasonable prudence and care should be exercised in dealing with such information in order to avoid inadvertent inappropriate disclosure. This information must not be used in any way other than as required in performing employment duties. All files, records and reports acquired or created in the course of employment are the property of the Company. Originals or copies of such documents may be removed from the Company's offices for the sole purpose of performing the employee's duties to the Company and must be returned at any time upon request. Employees must also abide by the provisions of the Company's Confidential and Proprietary Information Policy.  iii.  Trademarks, Service Marks and Copyrights  Trademarks and service marks - words, slogans, symbols, logos or other devices used to identify a particular source of goods or services - are important business tools and valuable assets which require care in their use and treatment. No employee may negotiate or enter into any agreement respecting the Company's trademarks, service marks or logos without first consulting the Legal Department. The Company also respects the trademark rights of others and any proposed name of  
Copyright © 2013 WeComply, Inc. & Association of Corporate Counsel 
42   Corporate Compliance 
a new product, financial instrument or service intended to be sold or rendered to customers must be submitted to the Legal Department for clearance prior to its adoption and use. Similarly, using the trademark or service mark of another company, even one with whom our Company has a business relationship, always requires clearance or approval by our Legal Department, to ensure that the use of that other Company's mark is proper.   Employees must avoid the unauthorized use of copyrighted materials of others and should confer with the Legal Department if they have any questions regarding the permissibility of photocopying, excerpting, electronically copying or otherwise using copyrighted materials. In addition, simply because material is available for copying, such as matter downloaded from the Internet, does not mean that it is automatically permissible to copy or recirculate (by, for example, email or posting to an intranet facility). All copies of work that is authorized to be made available for ultimate distribution to the public, including all machine readable works such as computer software, must bear the prescribed form of copyright notice.   The Company is legally entitled to all rights in ideas, inventions and works of authorship relating to its business that are made by employees during the scope of their employment with the Company or using the resources of the Company ("Employee Developments"). As a condition of employment, employees are required to promptly disclose all Employee Ideas to their supervisor, and to execute the necessary documentation to transfer all Employee Developments to XYZ Company to evidence their ownership, or to obtain legal protection for them.  e.  Company Political Involvement Employees are free to exercise the right to make political contributions within legal limits, unless such a contribution is otherwise prohibited by other policies of the Company. The Company will not reimburse any employee for political contributions, and employees should not attempt to receive or facilitate such reimbursements. Generally, no contribution may be made with the expectation of favorable government treatment in return. In any event, all contributions, by whoever made, are subject to a series of complex and sometimes inconsistent sets of rules governing, among other things, the amount of, and manner in which, contributions may be made. Any questions about compliance should be directed to the Compliance Officer or Legal Department. In addition, any political activity or contribution by an employee which might appear to constitute an endorsement or contribution by the Company must be approved in advance by the Compliance Officer or Legal Department.  2.  Securities Laws Employees may not trade in (or even recommend) Company stock based on inside information. "Insider trading" is the purchase or sale of a publicly traded security while in possession of important non-public information about the issuer of the security. Such information includes, for example, non-public information on Company earnings, significant gains or losses of business, or the hiring, firing or resignation of a Director or Officer of the Company. Insider trading, as well as "tipping", which is communicating such information to anyone who might use it to purchase or sell securities, are prohibited by the securities laws. When in doubt, information obtained as an employee of the Company should be presumed to be important and not public.   Officers and directors of the Company are also prohibited from trading in Company stock during any period in which participants in the Company's retirement plans could not engage in a similar type of transaction.   	  
	  For more ACC InfoPAKs, please visit www.acc.com/infopak    
43 
Employees who have questions pertaining to the sale or purchase of a security under circumstances that might involve confidential information or securities laws should consult with the Compliance Officer or Legal Department. The Compliance Officer or Legal Department may refer individuals to their personal attorneys.  3.  Antitrust Laws The federal government, most state governments, the European Economic Community and many foreign governments have enacted antitrust or "competition" laws. These laws prohibit "restraints of trade", which is certain conduct involving competitors, customers or suppliers in the marketplace. Their purpose is to ensure that markets for goods and services operate competitively and efficiently, so that customers enjoy the benefit of open competition among their suppliers and sellers similarly benefit from competition among their purchasers. In the United States and some other jurisdictions, violations of the antitrust laws can lead to substantial civil liability - triple the actual economic damages to a plaintiff. Moreover, violations of the antitrust laws are often treated as criminal acts that can result in felony convictions of both corporations and individuals.   Strict compliance with antitrust and competition laws around the world is essential. These laws are very complex. Some types of conduct are always illegal under the antitrust laws of the Untied States and many other countries. Employees and other representatives of the Company must be alert to avoid even the appearance of such conduct. These are:  a. Agreements with competitors: • to set prices or any other economic terms of the sale, purchase or license of goods or services, to use a common method of setting prices, or to set any conditions of sale or purchase;  • on any terms of a bid or whether or not to bid;  • to allocate or limit customers, geographic territories, products or services, or not to solicit business from each other in one or more ways;  • not to do business with (to "boycott") one or more customers, suppliers, licensors or licensees; and  • to limit production volume or research and development, to refrain from certain types of selling or marketing of goods or services, or to limit or standardize the features of products or services.  b.  Agreements with customers or licensees on the minimum resale price or price levels (e.g., discounts) of the Company's goods or services. Other activities are not absolutely illegal, but will be legal in some market situations and illegal in others. Some of these types of conduct involve agreements with third parties such as competitors, customers, suppliers, licensees or licensors. Others involve unilateral actions that may result in claims that the Company has monopolized or attempted to monopolize a market. These types of conduct are described below:  ■ "Predatory" pricing, or pricing below some level of cost, with the effect of driving at least some competition from the market;  ■ Exclusive dealing arrangements that require customers or licensees not to deal in the goods or services of the Company's competitor;   
Copyright © 2013 WeComply, Inc. & Association of Corporate Counsel 
44   Corporate Compliance 
■ Reciprocal purchase agreements that condition the purchase of a product on the seller's agreement to buy products from the other party;  ■ "Tying" arrangements, in which a seller conditions its agreement to sell a product or service that the buyer wants on the buyer's agreement to purchase a second product that the buyer would prefer not to buy or to buy elsewhere on better terms;  ■ "Bundling" or market share discounts in which the final price depends on the customer's purchase of multiple products or on allocating a specified percentage of its total purchases to the Company's products;  ■ "Price discrimination," or selling to different purchasers of the Company's products at different prices or on other different economic terms of the purchase, or offering different promotional allowances or services in connection with the customer's resale of the products, without complying with the specific exceptions permitted under the law; and  ■ Agreements with customers or licensees on the maximum resale price or price levels of the Company's goods or services.   This Code of Conduct is not intended as a comprehensive review of the antitrust laws, and is not a substitute for expert advice. If any employee has questions concerning a specific situation, he or she should contact the Compliance Officer or Legal Department before taking action.  4.  International Operations Laws and customs vary throughout the world, but all employees must uphold the integrity of the Company in other nations as diligently as they would do so in the United States. When conducting business in other countries, it is imperative that employees be sensitive to foreign legal requirements and United States laws that apply to foreign operations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act generally makes it unlawful to give anything of value to foreign government officials, foreign political parties, party officials, or candidates for public office for the purposes of obtaining, or retaining, business for the Company. Employees should contact the Compliance Officer or Legal Department if they have any questions concerning a specific situation.  5.  Relationships with Public Officials Some employees do business with federal, state or local government agencies. All employees engaged in business with a governmental body or agency must know and abide by the specific rules and regulations covering relations with public agencies. Such employees must also conduct themselves in a manner that avoids any dealings which might be perceived as attempts to influence public officials in the performance of their official duties.  6.  Bribery, Kickback and Fraud No funds or assets of the Company shall be paid, loaned or otherwise disbursed as bribes, "kickbacks", or other payments designed to influence or compromise the conduct of the recipient; and no employee of the Company shall accept any funds or other assets (including those provided as preferential treatment to the employee for fulfilling their responsibilities), for assisting in obtaining business or for securing special concessions from the Company.   Company employees should conduct their business affairs in such a manner that the Company's 	  
	  For more ACC InfoPAKs, please visit www.acc.com/infopak    
45 
reputation will not be impugned if the details of their dealings should become a matter of public discussion.   Employees must not engage in any activity, which degrades the reputation or integrity of the Company.   To illustrate the strict ethical standard the Company expects every employee to maintain, the following conduct is expressly prohibited:   ■ Payment or receipt of money, gifts, loans or other favors which may tend to influence business decisions or compromise independent judgment;  ■ Payment or receipt of rebates or "kickbacks" for obtaining business for or from the Company;  ■ Payment of bribes to government officials to obtain favorable rulings; and  ■ Any other activity that would similarly degrade the reputation or integrity of the Company.   Any employee found to be receiving, accepting or condoning a bribe, kickback, or other unlawful payment, or attempting to initiate such activities, will be liable to termination and possible criminal proceedings against them. Any employee found to be attempting fraud or engaging in fraud will be liable to termination and possible criminal proceedings against them. All employees have a responsibility to report any actual or attempted bribery, kickback or fraud to the Company.  7.  Sanctions and Trade Embargoes The United States government uses economic sanctions and trade embargoes to further various foreign policy and national security objectives. Employees must abide by all economic sanctions or trade embargoes that the United States has adopted, whether they apply to foreign countries, political organizations or particular foreign individuals and entities. Inquires regarding whether a transaction on behalf of the Company complies with applicable sanction and trade embargo programs should be referred to the Compliance Officer or the Legal Department.  8.  Books and Records All employees with supervisory duties should establish and implement appropriate internal accounting controls over all areas of their responsibility to ensure the safeguarding of the assets of the Company and the accuracy of its financial records and reports. The Company has adopted controls in accordance with internal needs and the requirements of applicable laws and regulations. These established accounting practices and procedures must be followed to assure the complete and accurate recording of all transactions. All staff, within their areas of responsibility, are expected to adhere to these procedures, as directed by appropriate Company officers.   Any accounting adjustments that materially depart from GAAP must be approved by the audit committee and reported to the Company's independent auditors. In addition, all material off-balance-sheet transactions, arrangements and obligations, contingent or otherwise, and other relationships of the Company with unconsolidated entities or other persons that may have material current or future effects on the financial condition, changes in financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, capital resources or significant components of  
Copyright © 2013 WeComply, Inc. & Association of Corporate Counsel 
46   Corporate Compliance 
revenues or expenses must be disclosed to the audit committee and the Company's independent auditors.   No employee or non-employee director may interfere with or seek to improperly influence, directly or indirectly, the auditing of the Company's financial records. Violation of these provisions shall result in disciplinary action, up to and including termination, and may also subject the violator to substantial civil and criminal liability.   If an employee becomes aware of any improper transaction or accounting practice concerning the resources of the Company, he or she should report the matter immediately to his or her supervisor or to a member of the audit committee. Employees may also file a confidential, anonymous complaint with ___________ if they have information regarding questionable accounting or auditing matters. There will be no retaliation against employees who disclose questionable accounting or auditing matters.  9.  Employment Policies The Company is committed to fostering a work environment in which all individuals are treated with respect and dignity. Each individual should be permitted to work in a business-like atmosphere that promotes equal employment opportunities and prohibits discriminatory practices, including harassment. Therefore, the Company expects that all relationships among persons in the workplace will be business-like and free of unlawful bias, prejudice and harassment. It is the Company's policy to ensure equal employment opportunity without discrimination or harassment on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, age, disability, or any other status protected by law. The Company's Non-Discrimination Policy and Anti-Harassment Policy is contained in the employee handbook.   It is the Company's policy to comply with all applicable wage and hour laws and other statutes regulating the employer-employee relationship and the workplace environment. To the extent the Company deals with labor unions, it is illegal under federal and state law for the Company or any of its employees or agents to pay to or receive anything of value from any labor organization.   No Company employee may interfere with or retaliate against another employee who seeks to invoke his or her rights under the laws governing labor and employee relations. If any employee has any questions about the laws or Company policies governing labor and employee relations matters, he or she should consult the divisional intranet or employee handbook or contact the Human Resources Department, Compliance Officer, or the Legal Department.   The Company is committed to providing a safe workplace for all employees. In addition, several laws and regulations impose responsibility on the Company to safeguard against safety and health hazards. For that reason, and to protect the safety of themselves and others, employees and other persons who are present at Company facilities are required to follow carefully all safety instructions and procedures that the Company adopts. Questions about possible health and safety hazards at any Company facility should be directed immediately to the employee's supervisor.  10. Computer, E-mail and Internet Policies Every employee is responsible for using the Company's computer system, including, without limitation, its electronic mail (E-mail) system and the Internet (collectively, the "Computer System"), properly and in accordance with Company policies. The Company's Computer System Policy is contained in the employee handbook. Any questions about these policies should be 	  
	  For more ACC InfoPAKs, please visit www.acc.com/infopak    
47 
addressed to the employee's immediate supervisor or the Compliance Officer. Employees should be aware of, among other matters, the following:  a. The Computer System Is Company Property The computers that employees are provided or have access to for work and the E- mail system are the property of the Company and have been provided for use in conducting Company business. All communications and information transmitted by, received from, created or stored in its Computer System (whether through word processing programs, E-Mail, the Internet or otherwise) are Company records and property of the Company.  b. No Expectation of Privacy The Company has the right, but not the duty, for any reason and without the permission of any employee, to monitor any and all of the aspects of its Computer System, including, without limitation, reviewing documents created and stored on its Computer System, deleting any matter stored in its system, monitoring sites visited by employees on the Internet, monitoring chat and news groups, reviewing material downloaded or uploaded by users from the Internet, and reviewing E-Mail sent and received by users. Employees should not have an expectation of privacy in anything they create, store, send or receive on the Computer System.  c. Professional Use of Computer System Required; Other Policies Apply Employees are reminded to be courteous to other users of the system and always to conduct themselves in a professional manner. The Company's policies against discrimination and harassment (sexual or otherwise) apply fully to the Company's Computer System, and any violation of those policies is grounds for discipline up to and including discharge.  d. Offensive and Inappropriate Material; Illegal Activities Company policies prohibit using the Company's Computer System to send or receive messages or files that are illegal, sexually explicit, abusive, offensive or profane.  e. Solicitations The Company's Computer System may not be used to solicit for religious or political causes, commercial enterprises, outside organizations, or other activities not related to an employee's services to the Company.  f. Copyrights and Trademarks The Company's Computer System may not be used to send (upload) or receive (download) copyrighted materials, trade secrets, proprietary financial information, or similar materials.  11.  Document Retention The space available for the storage of Company documents, both on paper and electronic, is limited and expensive. Therefore, periodic discarding of documents is necessary. On the other hand, there are legal requirements that certain records be retained for specific periods of time. Before disposing of documents, employees should consult the Company Records Retention Policy. Employees who are unsure about the need to keep particular documents should consult with their supervisor, so that a judgment can be made as to the likelihood that the documents will be needed.    
Copyright © 2013 WeComply, Inc. & Association of Corporate Counsel 
48   Corporate Compliance 
Whenever it becomes apparent that documents of any type will be required in connection with a lawsuit or government investigation, all possibly relevant documents should be preserved, and ordinary disposal or alteration of documents pertaining to the subjects of the litigation or investigation should be immediately suspended. If an employee is uncertain whether documents under his or her control should be preserved because they might relate to a lawsuit or investigation, he or she should contact the Legal Department.  12.  Former Government Employees Many laws restrict the hiring as an employee or retaining as a consultant of a government employee other than secretarial, clerical, or other low salary grade employees. These restrictions also cover informal arrangements for prospective employment under certain circumstances. Therefore, written clearance must be obtained from the Legal Department before discussing proposed employment with any current government employee and before hiring or retaining any former government employee who left the government within the past two years.  B. Compliance with the Code of Conduct All employees have a responsibility to understand and follow the Code of Conduct. In addition, all employees are expected to perform their work with honesty and integrity in any areas not specifically addressed by the Code of Conduct. A violation of this Code of Conduct may result in appropriate disciplinary action including the possible termination from employment with the Company, without additional warning.   The Company strongly encourages dialogue among employees and their supervisors to make everyone aware of situations that give rise to ethical questions and to articulate acceptable ways of handling those situations. In addition, each officer and supervisory employee of the Company has an obligation to annually certify that he or she has read and reviewed this Code of Conduct with his or her subordinates, and every employee must certify that he or she has read this Code of Conduct and to the best of his or her knowledge is in compliance with all its provisions.   The Code of Conduct reflects general principles to guide employees in making ethical decisions and cannot and is not intended to address every specific situation. As such, nothing in this Code of Conduct prohibits or restricts the Company from taking any disciplinary action on any matters pertaining to employee conduct, whether or not they are expressly discussed in this document. The Code of Conduct is not intended to create any expressed or implied contract with any employee or third party. In particular, nothing in this document creates any employment contract between the Company and any of its employees.   The Board of Directors of XYZ Company has the exclusive responsibility for the final interpretation of the Code of Conduct. The Code of Conduct may be revised, changed or amended at any time by the Board of Directors of XYZ Company.  C. Reporting Suspected Non-Compliance 1. General Policy: To assist in the administration of the Code of Conduct, the Company has established the position of Compliance Officer. As part of its commitment to ethical and legal conduct, the Company expects its employees to bring to the attention of the Compliance Officer, or any of the people he or she designates, information about suspected violations of this Code of Conduct or of law by any 	  
	  For more ACC InfoPAKs, please visit www.acc.com/infopak    
49 
Company employee or agent. Employees who have information about suspected improper accounting or auditing matters should bring it to the attention of their supervisors and/or a member of the audit committee, or submit an anonymous complaint. Employees are required to come forward with any such information, without regard to the identity or position of the suspected offender. The Company will treat the information in a confidential manner (consistent with appropriate evaluation and investigation) and will seek to ensure that no acts of retribution or retaliation will be taken against anyone for making a report.   Because failure to report criminal activity can itself be understood to condone the crime, we emphasize the importance of reporting. Failure to report knowledge of wrongdoing may result in disciplinary action against those who fail to report.  2. Complaint Procedure Notification of Complaint - Information about known or suspected violations by any employee or agent should be reported promptly. Whenever practical an employee should do so in writing.   Investigation - Reports of violations will be investigated under the Compliance Officer's supervision, as he or she finds appropriate. Employees are expected to cooperate in the investigation of reported violations.   Confidentiality - The Compliance Officer will not, to the extent practical and appropriate under the circumstances to protect the privacy of the persons involved, disclose the identity of anyone who reports a suspected violation or who participates in the investigation. Employees should be aware that the Compliance Officer, and those assisting him or her are obligated to act in the best interests of the Company, and do not act as personal representatives or lawyers for employees.  Protection Against Retaliation - Retaliation in any form against an individual who reports a violation of this Code of Conduct or of law, even if the report is mistaken, or who assists in the investigation of a reported violation, is itself a serious violation of this policy. Acts of retaliation should be reported immediately and will be disciplined appropriately.   Please indicate that you have received, read and will abide by this statement of policy by signing your name and dating the attached acknowledgment and returning it promptly to your supervisor.   Acknowledgment  I certify that I have received and read and that I will abide by the XYZ Company Code of Conduct distributed to me on ________________, 2002.   ________________________________ (signature)   ________________________________ (print your name)  Date: ___________________________ 52   Corporate Compliance 
	  
IX.   Endnotes 	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  1 Sarbanes-Oxley, SOX and Sarbox are the popular names for the Public Company Accounting Reform and Investor Protection Act of 2002, Pub. L. 107-204, 116 Stat. 745 (2002).  2 Mistretta v. United States, 488 U.S. 361 (1989).  3 United States v. Booker, 543 U.S. 220 (2005) (striking down 18 U.S.C. § 3553(b)(1), which made the Guidelines mandatory, and 18 U.S.C. § 3742(e), an appeals provision.) In another major case decided shortly before Booker, the Court held that the Sixth Amendment right to a jury trial prohibited judges from using the Guidelines to enhance sentences based on facts other than those decided by the jury or admitted by the defendant. See Blakely v. Washington, 542 U.S. 296 (2004).  4 Rita v. United States, 127 S. Ct. 2456 (2007) (Appellate courts may presume sentences within the Guidelines' ranges to be reasonable); Gall v. United States, 128 S. Ct. 586 (2007) (“As a matter of administration and to secure nationwide consistency, the Guidelines should be the starting point and initial benchmark” at sentencing); Kimbrough v. United States, 128 S.Ct. 558 (2007) (After Booker, “[a] district judge must include the Guidelines range in the array of factors warranting consideration”).  Diaz Ruez, et al. New Sentencing Guidelines amendments amplify the importance of an effective compliance program (2011), available at http://www.lexology.com/library/detail.aspx?g=33e2cee7-1ae7-4bc3-8191-2d8186ab8c87.  6 See, e.g., “Principles of Federal Prosecution of Business Organizations,” U.S. Dept. Justice, U.S. Attorneys’ Manual, § 9.28.300 (2008) (listing the existence and effectiveness of corporation's pre-existing compliance program as one of nine discretionary factors to consider before bringing a corporate prosecution).  See also § 9.28.800 cmt. B  (“The existence of a corporate compliance program, even one that specifically prohibited the very conduct in question, does not absolve the corporation from criminal liability under the doctrine of respondeat superior.”).  7 United States v. Merck-Medco Managed Care, L.L.C., 336 F. Supp. 2d 430 (E.D. Pa. 2004).  8 Mayer Brown, “Understanding the New Financial Reform Legislation: The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer 
	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  Protection Act (2010)”,  available at http://www.mayerbrown.com/files/Publication/1ec275f4-5618-4a63-9d38-3129010c06db/Presentation/PublicationAttachment/ef42ecce-49ff-44b2-b37a-72b81d87fb79/Final-FSRE-Outlinev2.pdf  9 Dodd-Frank Section 922 amended the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) by, among other things, adding Section 21F,entitled “Securities Whistleblower Incentives and  Protection.”  Section 21F directs the SEC to make monetary awards to eligible individuals  who voluntarily provide original information that leads to successful Commission enforcement  actions resulting in the imposition of monetary sanctions over $1,000,000, and certain successful  related actions. Awards are required to be made in the amount of 10% to 30% of the monetary  sanctions collected, payable from the Commission’s Investor Protection Fund .  In addition, § 924(d) of the Dodd-Frank Act directs the Commission to establish a separate office within the Commission to administer and to effectuate the whistleblower program.  10 Three of four anonymous whistleblowers were awarded 15% of the more than $7.5 million in monetary sanctions the SEC is entitled to under the judgment. See In the Matter of the Claim for Award in connection with SEC v. Andrey C. Hicks and Locust Offshore Management, LLC, 1:11-cv-11888-RGS (D. Mass. 2011).   11 Annual Report on the Dodd-Frank  Whistleblower Program Fiscal Year 2012, available athttp://www.sec.gov/about/offices/owb/annual-report-2012.pdf.  The most common complaint categories reported by whistleblowers were Corporate Disclosures and Financials(18.2%), Offering Fraud (15.5%), and Manipulation (15.2%).  12 15 U.S.C. §78j-4(a)   13 The Travel Act, 18 U.S.C. § 1952 (1976).  14 N.Y. Gen Bus. Law §§ 352-c & 353 (McKinney  1996).  15 A Resource Guide to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act  (Nov. 14, 2012), available at http://www.justice.gov/criminal/fraud/fcpa/guide.pdf. (“DOJ FCPA Resource Guide”).  16 In re Caremark International Inc. Derivative Litigation, 698 A.2d 959  (Del. Ch. 1996)  17 Id.  53 
	  
	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	   18 N.L.R.B. v. J. Weingarten, 420 U.S. 251 (1975), originally applied only to unionized workplaces; this right was extended to employees generally in Epilepsy Foundation of Northeast Ohio v. N.L.R.B., 268 F.3d 1095 (D.C. Cir. 2001). However, the N.L.R.B. reversed itself again, finding that the rights only extended to unionized workplaces, in IBM Corp., 341 N.L.R.B. No. 148 (2004).  19 For example, Virginia forbids employment discrimination for a previous criminal conviction if it is not related directly to the occupation. VA. ST. §§ 54.1-204, available at http://leg1.state.va.us/cgi-bin/legp504.exe?000+cod+54.1-204. If someone has a conviction for driving while intoxicated, an employer may deny the application, based solely on that conviction, if the job requires driving a delivery van, but not if there is no such driving requirement. Using convictions to discriminate arbitrarily may also raise the specter of racial discrimination.   20 United States Sentencing Commission § 8A1.2, Guidelines Manual, comment n. 3(c) (Nov. 2008), available at http://www.ussc.gov/2008guid/8a1_2.htm.  21 To view a sample training course on Insider Trading and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act by WeComply, Inc., please go to: http://www.wecomply.com/wc2/register.aspx?id=79&code=acca . (In order to access this course through this link you will need to register by creating a user ID and password. Registrants will have access to both a course on Insider Trading and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. The content of both courses may be customized and tailored to your company’s needs and policies.)   22 For example, see OSHA’s specific and extensive training requirements for the construction industry and general voluntary training guidelines, available at http://www.osha.gov/doc/outreachtraining/htmlfiles/osha2254.html.  23 For a helpful overview, see Ethical & Compliance Considerations in the Cross-Border Context  Global Implications of the Attorney-Client Privilege, available at  http://www.acc.com/chapters/dallas/upload/ACC-DFW-Global-Implications-of-the-Attorney-Client-Privilege-Presentation.pdf. 24 Case C-550/07, Akzo Nobel Chems. v. Comm’n, 2010 E.C.R. I-1. 