Compliance Handbook 7th edition
Compliance
Handbook
E i s a i    N e t w o r k    C o m p a n i e s
English
Version
January 2017
& Compliancehhc
Compliance Handbook for
Eisai Network Companies
Compliance HandbookCorporate Objective
A human health care company capable of making a meaningful contribution under 
any healthcare system while observing the highest legal and ethical standards in its 
business activities.1
Message from the Chief Executive Oﬃcer
The modern pharmaceutical industry has two missions: the discovery and the 
development of curative medicines and preemptive medicines. Also we make every 
eﬀort to get access to those medicines for people in need. 
To fulfill these missions the fundamental corporate strength we need is compliance. 
Compliance underpins the basic ability for the growth. But compliance changes as 
time passes; in other words, it is a living standard. What was right yesterday may no 
longer be right today. This is the reason we train ourselves constantly through 
various sessions both internally and externally. 
Above all, I would like to emphasise that if you do the wrong thing with regard to 
modern compliance, the consequences for you as an individual and for the 
company as an organisation will be devastating. This Compliance Handbook 
provides guiding principles to help you and Eisai stay compliant and achieve our 
missions.
January 2017
Haruo Naito
Representative Corporate Oﬃcer and CEO
Eisai Co., Ltd.
2
Message from the Chief Compliance Oﬃcer
Eisai’s ethical standards are focused around its hhc 
philosophy where patients and their families are at 
the core of what we do, and include integrity, 
respect and openness. These are central to 
establishing and maintaining trusting 
relationships, not only with colleagues, but also 
with our stakeholders, our business partners, 
patients, the communities within which we work 
and those who govern us. They guide us in all we 
do and with whomever we work.
The continued success of our organisation 
depends on the ability of each of us to live up to these standards as we navigate the 
challenges we encounter in our day-to-day activities – not only in the letter, but also in 
the spirit. This includes full and part time employees as well as anyone representing 
Eisai.
Every employee has an individual responsibility to work together as a team to meet 
the standards of behaviour set out in this Handbook. In addition those of us who have 
managerial responsibilities are required to ensure that our team members are familiar 
with the contents of this Handbook as well as all the rules, regulations and principles 
that apply in our business area and to be a role model to them in the way we behave.
We recognise that this Handbook does not cover every compliance situation that we 
might face in our work. In these situations, we must use our personal judgement to 
make the right decisions. We must consult others if we are not sure, for example our 
colleagues, our manager(s) or the Compliance function (“Compliance”).
Compliance encourages everyone to be proud to work for Eisai, to embrace our 
standards and be passionate in everything we do. If any of you has any concerns or 
problems, please speak up.
January 2017
Junichi Asatani
Chief Compliance Oﬃcer 
Eisai Co., Ltd.
3
Contents
Message from the Chief Executive Oﬃcer 1
Message from the Chief Compliance Oﬃcer 2
Introduction to the Compliance Handbook 5
A. What is compliance in Eisai? 5
B. Who is this Handbook for? 5
C. What is the purpose of this Handbook? 5
D. How to use this Handbook 5
Charter of Business Conduct  6
Code of Conduct 8
Part 1 What Eisai’s Code of Conduct means to each of us 9
1.1 Our responsibilities 10
1.2 Additional responsibilities for oﬃcers, directors and managers 11
1.3 Asking questions and reporting compliance concerns 12
Part 2 Our working environment 15
2.1 Discrimination 16
2.2 Harassment 17
2.3 Health and safety 18
2.4 Drugs and alcohol 20
2.5 Use of social media 21
2.6 Conﬂicts of interest 23
2.7 Fraud  254
Part 3 Eisai and its stakeholders 27
3.1 Research and development 28
3.2 Manufacturing and distribution 30
3.3 Promotional and non-promotional communication 31
3.4 Adverse events and safety 33
3.5 Interactions with Healthcare Providers  34
3.6  Relations with regulatory and other public agencies 37
Part 4 Relationship with society 39
4.1 Corrupt practices and bribery 40
4.2 Fair trade and competition practices 42
4.3 Political contributions 45
4.4 Environmental protection 46
4.5 Organised crime 47
4.6 Human rights 48
Part 5 Corporate assets and information 49
5.1 Documentation 50
5.2 Intellectual property 51
5.3 Confidential information 54
5.4 Protection of personal data  57
5.5 Insider information and trading 59
5.6 Eisai’s assets 60
5.7 Tax payments and financial statements 615
Introduction to the Compliance Handbook
A. What is compliance in Eisai?
Compliance in Eisai means complying with written standards such as laws, 
regulations, Eisai policies and procedures as well as the ethical standards of 
integrity, respect and openness.
B. Who is this Handbook for?
This Handbook contains Eisai’s Charter of Business Conduct and Code of Conduct 
applicable to anyone working with or on behalf of Eisai, including oﬃcers, directors, 
managers, employees, contractors and agents. 
C. What is the purpose of this Handbook?
The Handbook highlights some of the written and ethical standards Eisai expects 
everyone to comply with. It provides some guiding principles. The Handbook does 
not give detailed solutions to every situation we face in our day to day activities. We 
need to refer to Eisai policies and procedures for further information.
The Handbook sets out the available resources everyone can use to support the 
implementation of these standards. We should discuss matters with colleagues and 
in particular consult our manager. In addition, we can consult our local or regional 
Compliance Contact or Helpdesk, Compliance Department (“Compliance”), Human 
Resources or Legal Department as appropriate. 
We must remember that our activities do not necessarily end when we leave our 
place of work. If we interact with customers, attend professional events or travel on 
business, we are representing Eisai. The standards outlined in the Code apply to 
those activities too, and need to be subject to the same judgements we make about 
our activities as in our place of work.
D. How to use this Handbook
Everyone is expected to read and understand the guiding principles covered in this 
Handbook and apply them to their day to day activities. 6
Charter of Business Conduct 
Establised: March 2000
Revised: January 2017
We give first thoughts to patients and their families. We strive to increase the 
benefits that healthcare provides them and we conduct our business to meet their 
diversified healthcare needs worldwide. As a Human Health Care (“hhc”) company, 
we develop and provide products and services that contribute to the well-being of 
patients and their families under any healthcare system. 
It is an integral part of our corporate mission that we exercise good business 
judgement and act in a proper manner, in compliance with all relevant laws and 
ethical standards. These principles are essential to the company’s existence and are 
given top priority in all corporate activities.
We hereby establish our Charter of Business Conduct as a statement of our 
commitment to compliance. Eisai’s oﬃcers, directors and managers recognise that it 
is their role to lead by example by implementing the content and spirit of this 
Charter in all the work they do and in supervising those who work with them. By 
adhering to this Charter, they will inspire and encourage everyone to apply these 
standards in all their activities.
Everyone is expected to abide by the content and spirit of this Charter.7
Eisai and its stakeholders
 • We promote mutual respect and trust in our business relationships including 
healthcare providers, shareholders, investors, employees, business partners, 
patients and communities
 • We do not tolerate bribery or any other form of corrupt business behaviour
 • We compete fairly
 • We appropriately manage information and ensure our records are accurate, 
complete, fair and secure
 • We communicate with stakeholders, and appropriately disclose corporate 
information in a timely manner
 • We act in accordance with the principles of fairness, respect, and non-
discrimination in the workplace and provide a safe work environment for our 
employees
Eisai and society
 • We comply with all relevant laws and regulations of each country in which we do 
business and we conduct ourselves with the highest level of integrity
 • We respect human rights and prevent, within the scope of our business, modern 
slavery such as child labour, forced labour and human traﬃcking, while we take 
into consideration the cultures and customs of the countries where we operate
 • We are a “good corporate citizen” and support and encourage activities that 
contribute to society
 • We maintain fair and transparent relations with political and government entities
 • We shall not enter into, or to the extent we become aware we shall sever, 
relations with organised crime groups
 • We promote best practices for environmental protection in our business activities8
Code of Conduct9
Part 1 
    
What Eisai’s Code of Conduct means to each of us
1.1 Our responsibilities
1.2 Additional responsibilities for oﬃcers, directors and 
managers
1.3 Asking questions and reporting compliance concerns10
1.1  Our responsibilities
Compliance is everyone’s responsibility. Everyone is responsible for being trained 
on, understanding and applying relevant laws and regulations, Eisai’s ethical 
standards, policies and procedures. 
Whilst it is diﬃcult to be prepared for every possible situation in our daily work, this 
Handbook can help us recognise some potential issues and give us basic guidance 
on how to respond in diﬀerent situations. 
Our managers can help us implement the standards set out in this Handbook. We 
should ask our manager if we have a question or are unsure about how to deal with 
a situation that we think is not covered by the Handbook, policies or procedures, or 
we are unsure how to apply Eisai’s ethical standards in a given situation. 
Eisai resources, such as our local or regional Compliance Contact or Helpdesk, 
Compliance Department (“Compliance”), Human Resources or Legal Department, 
can also help us if our manager is unable to provide clear guidance or we are more 
comfortable discussing a concern  with someone other than our manager. 
Everyone has an obligation to report concerns regarding non-compliance with 
written standards and Eisai’s ethical standards.11
1.2  Additional responsibilities for oﬃcers, 
directors and managers
In addition to the responsibilities described in the previous section (page 10), 
oﬃcers, directors and managers are expected to lead by example when applying 
relevant laws and regulations, Eisai’s ethical standards, policies and procedures to 
their day to day activities.
Oﬃcers, directors and managers must guide and train employees under their 
supervision and ensure that their employees follow all laws and regulations and 
Eisai’s ethical standards, policies and procedures. They are responsible for helping to 
implement the compliance programme in their area. 
Eisai gives its oﬃcers, directors and managers responsibility for the compliance 
programme, but the Board of Eisai oversees its overall implementation and is 
responsible for ensuring that appropriate Compliance structures and systems are in 
place and operating eﬀectively. 
Oﬃcers, directors and managers are responsible for ensuring that compliance 
concerns in their area are properly handled and resolved. Prompt and accurate 
internal reporting about compliance concerns is essential to the success of the 
compliance programme. The compliance performance of oﬃcers, directors and 
managers is a critical part of their management performance and they are 
evaluated on that basis.
In Eisai, the compliance programme includes having a compliance structure, clear 
and concise policies and procedures, good communication and eﬀective training, 
reporting and internal controls, and processes to enable employees to report 
compliance concerns.12
1.3  Asking questions and reporting 
compliance concerns
It is everyone’s responsibility to ensure Eisai complies with laws and regulations, 
Eisai’s ethical standards, policies and procedures. When the right thing to do is not 
clear to us or something does not seem right we should ask questions or report our 
concerns. Failing to do the right thing may also damage Eisai’s business, reputation 
and patients.
If we are unsure that what we or our colleagues are doing complies with or we 
become aware of non-compliance, with written and ethical standards we should 
speak with our manager or consult Compliance, Human Resources, Legal or other 
relevant departments as appropriate.
Compliance concerns should be reported promptly because the earlier the 
company knows about them the sooner it can investigate and take appropriate 
action.
1.3.1 Policy of non-retaliation
Eisai encourages everyone to report compliance concerns and does not tolerate 
attempts to stop someone from making a report. No one will be punished or 
disciplined for making a report in good faith. Additionally we will not allow anyone 
to interfere with an investigation of a compliance concern or retaliate against the 
person who reported it. Any attempt to interfere with an investigation or to retaliate 
may result in disciplinary action. 13
Compliance can help us:
 • understand our obligation to report compliance concerns and methods for 
making a compliance report
 • when we are not sure that what we or our colleagues are doing is compliant or 
ethical
 • if we want to speak to someone other than our manager, or we do not consider  
that our manager’s advice meets Eisai’s standards
 • when we report an activity that may not comply with written or ethical standards
Compliance cannot help us:
 • with advice for personal legal issues or other issues not related to our work at 
Eisai
 • if we make a compliance report that is knowingly false
1.3.2 Reporting compliance concerns
You should always report something you believe not to comply with laws and 
regulations, Eisai’s ethical standards, policies or procedures. If you are not sure, you 
should contact Compliance. 
Be assured that a report of a compliance concern will be treated confidentially and 
information will be shared only in order to carry out any necessary investigation.
Scenario
I think a colleague is engaged in conduct that does not comply with the law as well 
as Eisai policy but I don’t want him to get in trouble. What should I do? 
Advice
You should speak to your manager or Compliance rather than ignore a problem 
which potentially could damage Eisai’s business, reputation or patients.14
15
Part 2 
    
Our working environment
2.1 Discrimination
2.2 Harassment
2.3 Health and safety
2.4 Drugs and alcohol
2.5 Use of social media
2.6 Conﬂicts of interest
2.7 Fraud16
2.1  Discrimination
Eisai welcomes and respects diversity, and believes in the fair treatment of all 
people. All our activities, including recruitment, training, and promotion, reﬂect that 
philosophy. Eisai policies are intended to encourage the professional growth and 
development of all employees in a workplace environment that is free from 
discrimination.
Examples of discrimination include, but are not limited to: race, gender, age, 
disability, national origin, religion, sexual orientation, marital status.
In short:
We should:
 • treat everyone with respect
 • base evaluations of an employee’s job performance strictly on the merits 
We should not:
 • make decisions in respect of any employee or applicant based on attributes 
not related to the person’s job performance or qualifications17
2.2  Harassment
Everyone has the right to work in a place that is free from harassment and no-one 
should engage in conduct that constitutes harassment. We are all expected to 
support a harassment free workplace.
We must make a report if we or our colleagues are the victims of harassment. Eisai 
does not tolerate anyone making sexual advances toward a colleague in the 
workplace or work-related environment, or taking intimidating or oﬀensive actions 
that create a hostile working environment.
In short:
We should:
 • treat everyone with respect and professionalism and as business colleagues, 
not social friends or classmates. The workplace is a professional environment, 
not a home or school or private club 
We should not:
 • make or use oﬀensive or inappropriate comments, pictures, or written text
Scenario
A colleague tells sexual jokes during the lunch break. What should I do?
Advice
Behaviour or action that makes you uncomfortable and unreasonably interferes 
with your work performance may be considered harassment. To some extent, this is 
a question of degree, but in appropriate cases, you should let your colleague know 
that this behaviour is oﬀensive to you or your colleagues and ask him or her to stop.  
You may also consult your manager, Compliance, or Human Resources for further 
guidance.   18
2.3  Health and safety
Eisai provides a work environment that complies with health and safety laws and 
regulations. We should all be aware of the safety procedures applicable to our 
activities and follow them. We must immediately report any accident, or unsafe or 
potentially hazardous practice or condition, including actual or potential security 
risks, to our manager or relevant department. 
Certain areas of our business, such as Research and Development and 
manufacturing, involve the handling of materials and equipment that can pose 
hazards to the health or safety of employees, and that are strictly regulated or may 
impact the environment. If we are involved in these types of activities we should 
consult our local written standards to understand how to work with these materials 
or equipment.
The use of certain medicinal drugs may impair our ability to function properly. We 
should be aware of how this can aﬀect our day to day activities and if this poses a 
problem for health and safety at work we should consult our manager, Human 
Resources or other relevant department.19
In short:
We should:
 • be aware that not complying with safety laws, regulations, policies and 
procedures can lead to serious health or safety problems
 • obtain written approvals from the appropriate manager if there are no 
relevant laws, regulations, policies or procedures
 • immediately report accidents and unsafe or potentially dangerous practices
We should not:
 • depart from safety laws, regulations, policies or procedures
 • leave accidents and unsafe or potentially dangerous practices without 
reporting20
2.4  Drugs and alcohol
The use of drugs and alcohol can be a serious workplace issue. Not only can their 
use lead to significant health problems but anyone under the inﬂuence of drugs or 
alcohol can be a hazard to themselves and others. Eisai believes that alcohol and 
drugs have no place in the workplace, unless required for a medical condition. Eisai 
does not allow the use of illegal drugs at work. The consumption of alcohol on site 
without permission is also prohibited.
Drug and alcohol misuse can create a serious health and safety risk for the abuser 
and for other employees. We should contact our local Human Resources 
Department if we are concerned about ourselves or colleagues.
In short:
We should:
 • be aware that the consumption of alcohol or drugs can be dangerous in the 
workplace
We should not:
 • consume alcohol in the workplace without appropriate permission
Scenario
My department wants to hold a celebration for the launch of our new product. We 
want to serve food and alcoholic beverages. Since it is a celebration, is it OK to have 
alcohol? 
Advice
It might be, but in any event, you must obtain appropriate managerial approval or 
approval as set out in your local policy before you have alcohol at a work event.21
2.5  Use of social media
We are all responsible for the reputation of Eisai whether during oﬃce hours or 
otherwise. Our actions may adversely aﬀect Eisai’s reputation, which can be 
detrimental to Eisai’s business and consequently to patients.  In order to protect 
Eisai’s reputation we should be mindful of what we post on social media in a 
personal capacity and avoid being seen to be acting on behalf of Eisai, or 
expressing Eisai’s oﬃcial view or opinion.
Any social media accounts created for Eisai business purposes must be properly 
approved in accordance with Eisai policies and procedures.
In short:
We should:
 • avoid being seen to be acting on behalf of Eisai when acting in a personal 
capacity
 • clearly identify our posts as personal, write in the first person and use a 
personal email address
We should not:
 • open social media accounts in a personal capacity that could be interpreted 
by others as acting on behalf of Eisai (e.g. using an Eisai company name, 
names of Eisai-related products or services)
 • write about Eisai products or competitor products or services
 • post information that might be construed in a way that could damage Eisai’s 
reputation, even indirectly. We should not post disparaging, oﬀensive, 
obscene, discriminatory or defamatory statements about Eisai, its clients, 
personnel or business partners
 • create social media accounts for business purposes without proper approval22
Scenario
My mother has recently been taking an Eisai drug and it seems to be working, and I 
would like to share this goods news to friends via social media. Can I do this? 
Advice
No. It is against Eisai policy for you to write about Eisai’s products on your personal 
social media. Only people authorised to post messages about Eisai and its products 
can do so through Eisai authorised media.
Scenario
I have created a social media account for use between colleagues at work. Is this 
acceptable?
Advice
No. Only authorised social media for business purpose is permitted. Communication 
between colleagues for business purposes must be done through authorized and 
secure media such as e-mails or company telephones.23
2.6  Conﬂicts of interest
When we make professional judgments or act on behalf of Eisai we are responsible 
for doing so impartially and in the best interests of the company. A conﬂict of 
interest exists when our personal interest is inconsistent with those of Eisai and 
creates conﬂicting loyalties. This conﬂict may cause us to make a biased business 
decision that may not be in Eisai’s best interests.
In performing our work, a conﬂict of interest may arise if we have a personal interest 
in a possible transaction or in a third party with whom Eisai has a business relation, 
or if we receive a gift or invitation to an event from a business partner.
If we have an actual conﬂict of interest or there is a potential for the appearance of a 
conﬂict of interest we should declare it to our manager so that an appropriate 
solution can be found, for example, by removing ourselves from any decision about 
a third party. 
Examples of potential conﬂicts include:
 • professional engagements, including third party board memberships
 • setting up or being a trustee of a charity which Eisai supports or is asked to 
support
 • accepting cash, gifts or invitations from a business partner
 • owning stock in an existing or potential business partner or competitor
• conducting business with a company owned by a family member or friend
 • accepting a position with an existing or potential business partner24
In short:
We should:
 • declare any potential conﬂicts of interest to our manager
We should not:
 • be unduly inﬂuenced in our business activities by relationships with close 
friends and family members
Scenario
I own stock in a company that does business with Eisai, do I have to disclose this 
information? 
Advice
There may be an issue with your owning stock in a company that does business 
with Eisai and you must disclose this information to your manager. Your ownership 
of the stock means you have a personal interest that may be diﬀerent from Eisai’s 
and the potential for a financial gain at Eisai’s expense. You will need to discuss this 
situation with your manager and Compliance.25
2.7  Fraud 
Eisai provides guidelines to detect and prevent fraud, misappropriations and other 
irregularities. Fraud is defined as the intentional, false representation or 
concealment of a significant fact which leads someone to act upon it to their 
detriment.
Each oﬃcer, director and manager should be familiar with the types of irregularities 
that might occur within their area of responsibility, and we should all be alert for 
any indication of irregularity.
2.7.1 Appropriate use of expenses and funds
Appropriate payments and reimbursement of expenses are fundamental to all 
legitimate business activities. All expense payments should be conducted in 
transparent processes (cashless payments, etc.) based on facts, and in a timely 
manner. We must all submit, use and reimburse expenses appropriately in 
compliance with Eisai procedures (including requirements such as amount limits, 
use of preferred vendors, etc.). 
Research and Development activities are funded not only by internal resources but 
also by external resources. We must appropriately manage and use Research and 
Development funds for their intended purpose.
2.7.2 Assuring reliability of research data
In order to assure reliability of research data, we must have adequate mechanisms 
to address fraudulent conduct in such activities (fabrication, falsification, plagiarism, 
etc.). We must follow policies and procedures in research divisions in each country 
where Eisai operates.
If we become aware of fraudulent conduct, we must contact Compliance. 26
In short:
We should:
 • be aware of the types of irregularities or fraudulent conduct that might occur 
within our area
 • report any eﬀort to engage in fraud, negligence or improper manipulation of 
clinical trial results
We should not:
 • request reimbursement of inappropriate expenses27
Part 3 
    
Eisai and its stakeholders
3.1 Research and development
3.2 Manufacturing and distribution
3.3 Promotional and non-promotional communication
3.4 Adverse events and safety
3.5 Interactions with Healthcare Providers
3.6 Relations with regulatory and other public agencies28
3.1  Research and development
Research and development activities are the basis of Eisai’s business and essential to 
achieving our hhc mission. We carry out our research and development activities 
respecting intellectual property rights (page 51), data integrity (page 25), health and 
safety (page 18), Healthcare Providers (page 34), clinical trial participants and the 
scientific community. We engage in research and development activities that comply 
with all regulations, internationally recognised standards e.g. Good Laboratory Practice 
(GLP) and Good Clinical Practice (GCP) and we adhere to high ethical standards.
3.1.1 Respect for clinical trial participants
Eisai respects the principles of GCP for clinical trials including the rights, safety and 
well-being of trial participants. Freely given informed consent should be obtained 
from every participant prior to clinical trial participation.
3.1.2 Disclosure of clinical results
We must disclose, in a timely and accurate fashion, clinical trial results regardless of 
outcome. 
3.1.3 Handling regulated chemicals and materials
In the process of research and development, we create and handle various 
chemicals and materials, which are regulated by laws and regulations, Eisai policies 
and procedures, such as narcotics, anti-hypnotics (and their raw materials), psycho-
pharmaceuticals and other hazardous chemicals.
Chemicals and materials may be hazardous if they are not properly handled 
(including living organisms and radioactive materials) and may impact the 
environment (including genetically modified organisms).
3.1.4 Animal research
Eisai accepts that animal research is a necessary and required part of verifying 
safety and eﬃcacy in the development of new drugs. We are dedicated to the 
humane care and treatment of the laboratory animals we use. Our animal research 
is overseen and guided by an Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC), 
which includes external specialists. 29
Our research is conducted with scientific rigour and due consideration is given to 
the well-being of the animals as well as to the 3R Principles of animal testing:
 • Replacement: Evaluating alternative techniques for animal research 
 • Reduction: Reducing the number of animals used to a minimum
 • Refinement: Minimising pain and suﬀering of animals to be used in research 
In short:
We should:
 • conduct our research and development activities strictly in accordance with 
Eisai policies and procedures
 • take steps, with the Intellectual Property Department, to secure appropriate 
intellectual property protection for any research and development work Eisai 
does
 • ensure that all clinical data are recorded and reported according to the clinical 
study plan
 • follow Eisai’s guidelines on disclosure of results from clinical studies
We should not:
 • suppress negative data about a product in development or otherwise attempt 
to distort the development record
 • engage in fraud, negligence or improper manipulation of clinical trial results30
3.2  Manufacturing and distribution
Eisai’s manufacturing and distribution activities comply with all laws, regulations 
and internationally recognised standards e.g. Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP). 
Eisai manufactures products of high quality to ensure the health and safety of 
patients. We carry out our manufacturing activities with due regard for health and 
safety (page 18), and the environment (page 46).
Quality assurance includes production levels (such as intake and handling of raw 
materials and finished products, including contract manufacturing) and proper 
storage and handling of the products during distribution.
In short:
We should:
 • be aware of and report any diversion or illegal tampering of our products
We should not:
 • conduct activities that cause or may cause contamination of production sites, 
raw materials or finished products31
3.3  Promotional and non-promotional 
communication
As an hhc company Eisai strives to create, produce and market innovative products 
that provide benefits to patients and their families. Our stakeholders have a legitimate 
interest in our products and the results of our research and development activities. 
Eisai markets and promotes its pharmaceutical products worldwide. We provide 
accurate and balanced scientific information, and promote our products only for the 
uses for which they have been approved by the applicable regulatory authorities. 
Oﬀ-label and false or misleading promotion and promotion of pre-approved drugs 
are prohibited as they may raise legal, regulatory and product liability issues. The 
relevant department must approve the content of any promotional materials, and 
we must avoid improper promotional activities. 
If we are engaged in promotional activities, we are expected to be familiar with the 
rules governing promotional activities.
In our promotional and non-promotional activities, we interact with Healthcare 
Providers; the rules governing this kind of interaction are many and complicated 
and they vary from country to country (page 34). 
3.3.1 Advisory board meetings
Advisory boards meetings should be held only to enable Eisai to answer legitimate 
business questions to which we do not already know the answer and must comply 
with local or regional written standards. They are therefore by their very nature not 
promotional. 
To be considered a legitimate advisory board:
 • the choice and number of participants should stand up to independent scrutiny 
 • each member should be chosen according to their expertise so that they will be 
able to contribute meaningfully to the purpose and expected outcomes of the 
meeting
 • the agenda should allow adequate time for discussion32
It may be necessary to discuss clinical data about our drugs but only if that 
information is essential to meet the stated objective of the advisory board meeting. 
To do otherwise might be disguised promotion or promotion of an unlicensed drug 
or indication.
Consult Compliance or the relevant department if you are not certain the meeting 
being organised is an Advisory Board.
In short:
We should:
 • provide accurate and balanced scientific information regarding our products’ 
appropriate use and safety information
 • conduct promotional activities using only materials that have been approved 
by the relevant department in our company
We should not:
 • promote our products for any uses that are not authorised 
 • provide samples outside the scope of applicable laws and regulations
Scenario
I found an article in a reputable medical journal regarding one of our products. May 
I circulate it to our sales representatives for them to use as a reference?
Advice
Not unless it has been approved by the relevant Eisai department. Sales 
representatives may use only those documents and materials that the relevant 
department in your company has reviewed and approved for promotion and 
advertising. Documents provided solely for training purposes are not to be 
distributed outside of Eisai.33
3.4  Adverse events and safety
The safety of our products, whether they are under development or on the market, 
is fundamental to our hhc mission. We are obliged by law to collect and report all 
information regarding the safety of our products.
If any of us becomes aware of an adverse event relating to an Eisai product, we 
should immediately report it to our local Pharmacovigilance Department in 
accordance with local standards. 
Eisai is responsible for reporting adverse events to governmental or regulatory 
authorities. If we are not sure how to proceed, we must ask our manager or contact 
our local Pharmacovigilance Department. 
In short:
We should:
 • report all adverse events and safety information on marketed products, as well 
as on products being used in clinical trials, to the appropriate 
Pharmacovigilance Department
 • be familiar with the requirements and procedures for adverse drug event 
report
We should not:
 • ignore or attempt to conceal adverse information about our products 
Scenario
A friend of a friend has posted on social media that they felt really unwell after 
taking an Eisai drug. Do I need to tell anybody?  
Advice
Yes. You must report the message you have seen to your Pharmacovigilance 
Department in accordance with your local procedures.34
3.5  Interactions with Healthcare Providers 
Collaboration between industry and Healthcare Providers benefits patients. It is a 
relationship that has delivered numerous innovative medicines and changed the 
way many diseases impact our lives. Industry and Healthcare Providers collaborate 
in a range of activities from clinical research, sharing best clinical practice and 
exchanging information on how new medicines fit in to the patient pathway. Eisai 
also interacts with Healthcare Organisations/Entities and Patient Groups to 
implement our hhc mission.
In all of these and other interactions, it is important that we ensure that the 
interactions are in accordance with applicable laws, regulations, and Eisai policies 
and procedures and that any compensation provided to Healthcare Providers or 
Organisations/Entities is in accordance with fair market value.
Any discussion of pricing or discounts must be done in accordance with local 
standards.
3.5.1 Disclosure of payments to Healthcare Providers, 
Organisations/Entities and Patient Groups
The collaboration Eisai has with its Healthcare Providers, Organisations/Entities and 
Patient Groups is important to us. We want to ensure that patients and others have 
confidence that these relationships are open and transparent and this is why Eisai 
supports the initiatives of the pharmaceutical industry to disclose details of 
payments and other benefits in kind. We must therefore capture all relevant 
information so we can comply with local disclosure requirements.
3.5.2 Domestic and international events
When Eisai arranges an event there are written standards that must be taken into 
consideration. For example, the local rules applicable to the:
 • meeting agenda and materials
 • internal and regulatory requirements to pre-approve events
 • meeting location and venue35
 • fair market value thresholds
 • hospitality and meals thresholds
 • disclosure of transfers of value
For international events we must also consider the nationality of the Healthcare 
Providers and consult with the relevant departments and countries to ensure 
compliance with various diﬀerent written standards.
In short:
We should:
 • interact with Healthcare Providers or Organisations/Entities only for a 
legitimate business purpose
 • follow the varied local laws, regulations, policies and procedures applicable to 
interactions with Healthcare Providers, Organisations/Entities or Patient 
Groups and specific activities
 • assure that any compensation provided to Healthcare Providers or 
Organisations/Entities is in accordance with fair market value for the particular 
service provided and consistent with any relevant contract with the 
Healthcare Providers or Organisations/Entities
 • report the details of the interaction in accordance with local policies, if 
required
We should not:
 • interact with or provide anything of value to a Healthcare Providers or 
Organisations/Entities which is or can be perceived as being an improper 
inducement to prescribe of Eisai’s products
 • provide anything of value to or on behalf of a guest or family member of a 
Healthcare Provider
 • try to hide or fail to disclose any compensation or value provided to a 
Healthcare Providers or Organisations/Entities36
Scenario
I have invited an expert to speak at one of our sponsored conferences. Eisai has a 
great relationship with this expert and I would like to show him my appreciation by 
taking him to a nice restaurant for dinner. Can I do this?
Advice
Even if the purpose is to provide information of a medical/scientific nature or on 
Eisai products, or if it is in conjunction with an Eisai-sponsored presentation, an 
expensive restaurant dinner is likely to be considered inappropriate under the 
relevant country’s standards. Please consult Compliance if you have any questions. 37
3.6   Relations with regulatory and other public 
agencies
Our pharmaceutical business is regulated by many public agencies in diﬀerent 
countries in the world. We must ensure that Eisai has appropriate interactions with 
all those agencies; those interactions must be accurate, complete, timely and 
transparent.
In short:
We should:
 • be open and transparent in our interactions with public authorities38
39
Part 4 
    
Relationship with society
4.1 Corrupt practices and bribery
4.2 Fair trade and competition practices
4.3 Political contributions
4.4 Environmental protection
4.5 Organised crime
4.6 Human rights40
4.1  Corrupt practices and bribery
It is Eisai policy not to tolerate bribery (including facilitation payments) or other 
corrupt conduct in Eisai business dealings either directly or by third parties acting 
on our behalf.
Many countries have laws that prohibit bribery, including bribery of public oﬃcials 
or any other individual or organisation. We should remember the definition of 
public oﬃcial diﬀers from country to country and that this term may include 
Healthcare Providers.
We do not oﬀer or promise any payment or item of value to anyone for the purpose 
of corruptly inﬂuencing their decisions in connection with the supply of goods or 
services to or from Eisai. We should recognise that violation of these laws may result 
in criminal charges not only against Eisai but individuals as well. 
4.1.1 Third party compliance due diligence
We should ensure that third parties acting on our behalf demonstrate the same 
high standards as Eisai. To allow Eisai to comply with anti-bribery, anti-corruption 
written standards we carry out appropriate compliance due diligence on third 
parties prior to engaging with them and provide training to them when required. 41
In short:
We should:
 • follow written standards for dealing with third parties, whether they are public 
oﬃcials or any other individual or organisations.
 • obtain approval for all gifts, hospitality and expenses in accordance with local 
standards
 • consult Compliance if we are unsure of our conduct or the laws applying to 
the countries where we may be conducting business
We should not:
 • give, promise or oﬀer anything of value which is or may be perceived as an 
inducement for improper conduct
 • contract with a third party without conducting appropriate due diligence
 • fail to investigate any suspicious transactions by a third party acting on behalf 
of Eisai
Scenario
I plan to contract with a renowned public oﬃcial Healthcare Provider for a service. 
She has asked me to contract with a company for this service instead. I am not sure 
that this company is really necessary for the service; however, I feel it may be hard 
to reject such a request. May I contract with this company for the service? 
Advice
You may contract for services with the individual or the organisation if there is a 
legitimate business need and if the contract terms are appropriate. If you are unsure 
of who is in fact providing the service, or unsure about whether the proposed 
arrangement provides fair value to Eisai and is otherwise appropriate, please 
consult Compliance. 42
4.2  Fair trade and competition practices
Eisai’s policy is to compete fairly and legitimately and to comply with anti-trust or 
competition laws in each country in which we operate. Acts or practices of unfair 
restraint of trade, for example, cartel, price fixing, etc. are prohibited.
We should consult the Legal Department if we have any questions about the 
application of competition laws to a particular situation.
4.2.1 Dealings with competitors, distributors, customers and 
suppliers
Formal or informal agreements or understandings with competitors, distributors, 
customers and suppliers may be prohibited under competition laws. In some cases, 
even discussion about the sensitive topics listed below may violate those laws. 
Therefore any intended interaction involving these sensitive topics by anyone in 
Eisai with any third party is prohibited, unless the relevant Legal Department has 
given its advice and prior written approval.
4.2.2 Sensitive topics for competitors
 • pricing, costs or profits
 • terms or conditions of sale (including credit extensions or information)
 • entering or leaving, or allocating with one or more other companies, product, 
service or geographic markets
 • market share or production or sales volume
 • decisions to bid or quote or otherwise allocate customers, suppliers or channels 
of distribution
 • whether and how diligently to pursue R&D projects43
4.2.3 Sensitive topics for distributors, customers and suppliers
 • terms under which a purchaser of our products resells the products (including 
price or whether the purchaser can resell)
 • making transactions dependent on other transactions (such as buying or selling 
other products or services)
 • restricting a third party to manufacture, buy, sell or provide any service to 
another party
In short:
We should:
 • take measures to avoid discussion of sensitive topics with third parties and, if 
required, remove ourselves from any such contact at the earliest opportunity 
 • obtain prior written approval from the relevant Legal Department for any 
agreement or understanding with any third parties about any sensitive topic
 • obtain prior Legal Department review of agendas for meetings with 
competitors (including trade associations or other industry gatherings)
 • make sure that business decisions, including those about R&D, manufacturing, 
pricing, promotion and sales, are based on independent grounds
 • report contact with third parties in line with company policy
We should not:
 • communicate and agree with third parties about sensitive topics, without 
prior advice and/or approval from the relevant Legal Department44
Scenario
I plan to attend a conference where one of our co-promotion partners will be 
present. This co-promotion partner has recently introduced a product that 
competes directly with one of our products. Can I discuss their new product with 
them? 
Advice
You should limit your discussion with co-promotion partners to co-promotion 
matters. Any conversation about their new product will raise competition law 
questions, and unless the Legal Department has approved it in advance, you should 
not discuss the new product with the business partner.
Scenario
I just want to talk to other market participants about some issues having to do with 
standardised practices, which I think will be in all our interests. Is there any reason I 
can’t do that? 
Advice
Yes, there is. Competition laws don’t think markets should be “orderly” . Competitors 
are supposed to make independent business decisions. If they have agreements or 
understandings with their competitors about sensitive topics, they violate 
competition laws in the process. Eisai will not tolerate such an outcome, and it 
exposes the individuals involved, as well as Eisai, to legal liability.45
4.3  Political contributions
Donations to politicians and political organisations are regulated in each country. In 
dealing with political donations, Eisai complies with local laws and regulations.
In short:
We should:
 • obtain appropriate internal approvals before making any contributions to 
politicians or political organisations in the name of Eisai46
4.4  Environmental protection
Eisai places global environmental protection as an important component of 
business operations and strives to maintain the environment in compliance with 
written standards.
In short:
We should:
 • help conserve energy and materials through recycling, power saving, water 
saving, etc.
 • be alert to ways in which Eisai’s activities can be changed to reduce the 
company’s environmental footprint47
4.5  Organised crime
We do not enter into, or to the extent we become aware we sever, relations with 
organised crime groups. 
If it is found that individuals or third parties we work with are involved in, or are 
suspected of being involved in, organised crime, we promptly report our concern to 
Compliance.
In short:
We should:
 • be aware that organised crime exists 
 • avoid any situation that could involve Eisai in relations with organised crime
 48
4.6  Human rights
Eisai is committed to uphold all internationally recognised human rights wherever 
our operations are located. Eisai will not tolerate the use of, including by its third 
parties or their supply chains, modern slavery such as child labour, forced labour, 
human traﬃcking or any other behaviour that does not maintain human dignity 
and respect.
In short:
We should:
 • respect the rights of all people in the way we conduct our business
Scenario
I have become aware that one of our suppliers regularly uses children to work in 
their factory. What should I do? 
Advice
You should inform your manager and/or Compliance. 49
 Part 5 
    
Corporate assets and information
5.1 Documentation
5.2 Intellectual property
5.3 Confidential information
5.4 Protection of personal data
5.5 Insider information and trading
5.6 Eisai’s assets
5.7 Tax payments and financial statements50
5.1  Documentation
Documents are the memory of a company. Individuals may remember events, but 
their memories are not consistently reliable. People inside and outside the company 
regard documentary records as much more important in trying to reconstruct 
things that happened in the past.
Not everything that happens needs to be documented. But we need to be aware 
that when we write emails or other messages, when we leave voice mails, and even 
when we have telephone conversations, if they are recorded, we are creating 
documents.
It is essential that documents be created for matters that need to be documented. 
There are many laws, rules, regulations and Eisai policies and procedures that cover 
these topics. We need to be fully aware of the ones that apply to our work.  It is also 
essential that when documents are created, they be timely, accurate and 
thoughtfully prepared so they are not misunderstood later, or taken out of their 
proper context. 
The knowing creation of false documentation, or the improper alteration of 
documents, makes it impossible rely on the company’s memory. Such misconduct is 
a gross violation of compliance and will be severely punished, up to and including 
termination from employment.51
5.2  Intellectual property
We spend a great deal of time, eﬀort and money developing valuable new products 
to improve patients’ health and quality of life. During the course of this product 
development, new technology, new designs, and unique product names may be 
invented or conceived. These may give rise to valuable assets in the form of 
intellectual property rights such as patent rights, design rights, trademark rights, 
copyright, know-how, and trade secrets. Others view their own intellectual property 
rights in the same way and we may not use intellectual property owned by a third 
party without the third party’s permission. 
If we are uncertain about Eisai’s intellectual property or the steps necessary to 
protect Eisai’s rights, or whether a third party’s rights are relevant to our activities, 
we should consult our manager, the Intellectual Property Department, Legal or 
Compliance.
5.2.1 Copyright
Whilst patent and trademark rights must be registered if they are to be protected, 
copyright need not be. 
 • We must be aware that copying another party’s work, even absent any copyright 
registration, could be considered copyright infringement.
 • We should obtain permission from the appropriate copyright holders to use their 
copyrighted works, and comply with the relevant laws when citing copyrighted 
works.52
In short:
We should:
 • be vigilant in the protection of Eisai’s own intellectual property and let your 
manager, Compliance or Legal know if third parties are violating Eisai’s rights
 • be aware of relevant third party patent and other intellectual property rights
 • obtain permission from the appropriate copyright holders to use their 
copyrighted works, and comply with the relevant laws when citing 
copyrighted works
We should not: 
 • disclose (even unintentionally) to anyone outside Eisai any trade secret or 
know-how that belongs to Eisai
 • obtain from someone who joins Eisai, trade secrets or other intellectual 
property of their previous company53
Scenario
Am I allowed to quote from another person’s copyrighted work for the purpose of 
preparing promotional materials?
Advice
In many countries, it is permissible to quote from another person’s published work, 
with appropriate credit to the author. But there are certain requirements you must 
meet in order to quote the material lawfully. If you fail to meet such requirements, 
you (and Eisai) may be in violation of copyright laws. Therefore, please consult and 
seek advice from Compliance or the Legal Department.
Scenario
I found a third party’s product with a name and packaging substantially similar to 
one of our products. Is there anything I can do?
Advice
Our product names and product packaging designs are protected under trademark 
laws or other laws in most countries. Such protection given by law may be seriously 
undermined if Eisai does not take appropriate counter measures immediately. 
Therefore, if you find such a product, please contact Compliance as soon as possible 
so Eisai can take appropriate action.54
5.3  Conﬁdential information
5.3.1 Conﬁdential information
Confidential information is an important Eisai asset. Confidential information 
includes anything from inventions, know-how and research results to financial data 
and customer lists. Disclosing our confidential information intentionally or 
accidentally might undermine our business. Therefore, we must make every eﬀort 
both seriously and diligently to protect our confidential information. 
Please note that if some information, despite being confidential information, is not 
managed appropriately, we may lose valuable legal protection that would 
otherwise apply to it. 
Confidential information received from third parties is similarly important to their 
success. When we come across information from a third party in our work and 
everyday life, we are required to obtain the necessary permission to use it. 
In all these cases, each of us needs to ensure that information that should stay 
within Eisai does stay within Eisai because, if it does not, its value to Eisai and 
perhaps others will be lost or diminished.
5.3.2 Information and Communication Technology security
Eisai takes Information and Communication Technology  (“ICT”) security seriously 
and has policies, procedures and systems in place to help prevent unauthorised 
access, disclosure, and disruption of information held in its ICT systems. 
If we become aware of any suspicious activities we should contact our local ICT 
Department or Compliance.55
In short:
We should:
 • discuss confidential information only in private locations. Remember that 
conversations using speaker phones and cellular/mobile phones can be 
overheard by others
 • review confidential documents only in private locations
 • when sending facsimiles or e-mails or text or other messages, ensure they are 
sent only to the proper recipients
 • if we need to share confidential information with a third party, get the 
approval of our manager and the manager responsible for Information 
Security in advance 
We should not: 
 • discuss confidential information in elevators, hallways, restaurants, airplanes, 
taxi cabs, trains or any other public places
 • dispose of confidential documents in such a way that they might be picked up 
by others56
Scenario
I have a large amount of company data in my computer. Can I take my computer 
with me to work away from the oﬃce? 
Advice
If you are permitted to work away from the oﬃce (for example, at home), as per 
local company policy, you must ensure that your computer is securely protected 
e.g. use of a strong password. Please note that if you take your computer outside 
the oﬃce, you must make sure it is in your possession or in a secure place at all 
times. Do not leave the computer in your car or any place else that it can be taken 
by others.
Scenario
If I develop an improvement to an existing product that is not patentable, is this 
considered confidential information?
Advice
Yes. All discoveries, inventions, improvements, and innovations, regardless of their 
patentability, are considered to be valuable or confidential information and should 
not be shared with anyone outside Eisai without the necessary approval.57
5.4  Protection of personal data 
In the course of its business, Eisai has personal information about its employees, 
patients, Healthcare Providers, suppliers, customers and contractors. Personal 
information is any information that identifies a living individual. Examples include 
lists of employees, and records that show their birth date, government-issued 
identification number or other identifying information or medical information. 
Eisai is committed to complying with data protection laws around the world. Some 
data protection laws specifically control how personal information can be used by 
organisations and businesses.
Eisai is responsible for using data in accordance with applicable data protection 
principles to ensure that such data are, at a minimum,
 • used fairly and lawfully
 • used for limited, specifically stated purposes
 • used in a way that is adequate, relevant and not excessive
 • accurate
 • kept for no longer than is absolutely necessary
 • handled according to people’s data protection rights
 • kept safe and secure
 • not transferred to other countries without adequate protection
There is often stronger legal protection for data which is deemed sensitive personal 
information.58
In short:
We should:
 • Access an individual’s personal information only with permission and when a 
clear business need exists, and in accordance with applicable law
 • Share personal information only with someone who has permission and a 
need to know the information
 • Be aware of all local laws and regulations regarding personal data protection 
when transferring or receiving personal data across countries and regions
We should not: 
 • Use or disclose anyone’s personal information for any purpose other than the 
one for which it was collected
 • Distribute any personal information without being sure that the distribution is 
allowed by applicable law59
5.5  Insider information and trading
Insider information is information that is not public and that an investor would 
consider important (“Material Information”) when deciding whether to buy, sell or 
hold stock. The use of insider information for making personal decisions relating to 
the purchase or sale of securities or other investments is illegal. Insider information 
must be kept strictly confidential and we should not give trading recommendations 
to those without the information. 
Examples of material Information include: financial results and forecasts; changes in 
dividends; possible mergers, acquisitions or joint ventures; and significant strategic 
and corporate developments, such as R&D or clinical trial results, major litigation 
developments, that are not yet public. 
In short:
We should:
 • keep Eisai insider information confidential and use it only for the business 
purposes for which it was developed
We should not: 
 • share Eisai insider information with family, friends or any other third party
 • make investment decisions for ourselves or anyone else that involve Eisai or 
other listed company shares and that are based in any way on insider 
information
Scenario
A relative asked me if she should sell Eisai shares, when I knew there would be an 
announcement soon that would likely have an eﬀect on the share price. Can I tell 
her what I think she should do?
Advice
No. You need to tell her that you can’t advise her and you can’t give her information 
or hints about what is going on.60
5.6  Eisai’s assets
Protecting Eisai’s assets is important. Eisai’s assets include items such as computers, 
telephones, lab equipment, oﬃce supplies, and company products, as well as 
intangible assets such as intellectual property rights. Any loss, theft or improper use 
of these assets can cause serious financial loss and damage to Eisai’s business. 
In short:
We should:
 • take all appropriate steps to protect Eisai’s assets and report any loss or theft 
immediately61
5.7  Tax payments and ﬁnancial statements
Eisai must make the correct payments to governments as required by applicable tax 
laws. For proper tax payments, it is important to maintain suﬃcient documents to 
prove and support the accuracy of our records and to establish proper criteria for 
our decisions. Eisai prohibits false information and forged expense claims in 
reimbursement or account settlements, as well as misrepresentation or 
concealment of relevant facts in a tax inspection; all these activities hinder proper 
tax payments.
As we are a publicly traded company we are required to disclose information about 
certain types of corporate activities in our annual reports. Accordingly, we must 
make sure that all our stakeholders receive correct and complete information in a 
timely manner.
In short:
We should:
 • properly document decisions to support information we disclose to tax 
authorities
 • account for the amounts accurately and promptly when using Eisai money
 • prepare expense claims promptly and accurately, attaching all relevant 
documents (i.e. invoices, expense claims), and clarifying amount and business 
purpose of the expense
 • keep proper documentation of approved company spending, and provide 
complete and accurate documentation upon request from Eisai, its auditors or 
the government
We should not:
 • falsify expense claims
 • falsify any company record or take any step to impair the accuracy of Eisai’s 
reporting of its business or financial performance62
Compliance Test
We all aim to realize our hhc mission. Before you take any action or make any 
business decision please ask yourself the following questions to make sure you are 
in line with our compliance standards. If you are in any doubt, you are encouraged 
to consult your manager. If, for some reason, you cannot consult your manager, 
please contact Compliance.
 • Could you openly tell your family what you have done?
 • Do you think it’s acceptable to be non-compliant as long as you are not found 
out? 
 • How would it feel to read a report of your activities in the news or on social 
media?The first edition: April 1st, 2000
The second edition: July 1st, 2001
The third edition: April 1st, 2003
The fourth edition: September 1st, 2005
The fifth edition: October 1st, 2007
The sixth edition: March 31st, 2013
The seventh edition: January 31st, 2017
Compliance Handbook for  
Eisai Network Companies
English Version (B)
Published by: 
Corporate Compliance & Risk Management Department, 
Eisai Co., Ltd.
© 2017 Eisai Co., Ltd.Compliance Handbook 7th edition
Compliance
Handbook
E i s a i    N e t w o r k    C o m p a n i e s
English
Version
January 2017
& Compliancehhc
Compliance Handbook for
Eisai Network Companies
Compliance Handbook