 
  Page 1 of 20 
 
IOM office-specific Ref. No.  
IOM Project Code  
 
 
PARTNERSHIP AGREEMENT 
between the 
International Organization for Migration 
and 
Name of the Partner 
on 
Title of the Project  
 
This Agreement is entered into by the International Organization for Migration, a related organization of 
the United Nations, Route des Morillons 17, 1218 Le Grand -Saconnex, Switzerland, represented by Full 
name, Position (hereinafter referred to as “IOM”) and Name of the Partner, Address, represented by Full 
name, Position (hereinafter referred to as the “ Partner”). IOM and the Partner are also referred to 
individually as a “Party” and collectively as the “Parties.” 
 
1. Introduction  
 
Insert a description of the Project 
 
2. Integral Documents 
 
The following documents form an integral part of this Agreement:  
 
(a) Annex A –Project Document;  
(b) Annex B –Project Budget;  
(c) Annex C – IOM’s Data Protection Principles; 
(d) Annex D – Add other applicable annexes 
 
3. Scope of the Agreement  
 
The Partner shall carry out defined activities under the Project as described in the Project Document 
(Annex A), in accordance with the Project Budget (Annex B). The Partner shall commence the activities on 
Start date and fully and satisfactorily complete them by End date.  
 
4. Responsibilities of IOM 
 
In accordance with its rules, regulations, directives, policies, and procedures, and subject to funding 
availability, IOM undertakes to: 
 
4.1  XXXXX 
 
4.2 XXXXX 
 
4.3  XXXXX 
  
  Page 2 of 20 
 
 
5. Responsibilities of the Partner  
 
The Partner undertakes to: 
 
5.1  Implement all activities as per the agreed timeline outlined in the Project Document  (Annex A), 
including: 
 
a. XXXXXX 
b. XXXXXX 
c. XXXXXX 
 
6. Finance  
 
6.1  In the framework of the Project, the Partner shall contribute in the amount and form as indicated 
in the the Project Budget (Annex B). 
 
6.2  IOM agrees to cover certain costs in the amount specified herein. For such purpose, IOM will 
transfer to the Partner an amount to cover the agreed costs under the Project name of the Project 
(the “Project”) from start date to end date in the maximum amount of USD amount in numbers 
(amount in letters  US Dollars only) (the “Contribution”) in accordance with the Project Budget 
(Annex B).   
 
6.3  Subject to receipt of the funds by IOM from the funding Donor of the Project, payments shall be 
made by IOM up to the maximum amount of the Contribution in instalments in accordance with 
the following schedule and conditions: 
 
(a) The first instalment in the amount of USD amount in numbers  (amount in letters  US 
Dollars only) shall be due within thirty (30) calendar days a fter signature of this 
Agreement and upon IOM’s receipt of the Partner’s payment request.  
 
(b) The second instalment in the amount of USD amount in numbers (amount in letters US 
Dollars only) shall be due within fifteen (15) calendar days of IOM’s receipt and approval 
of the interim report as described in Article 7, subject to IOM’s receipt of the request for 
payment and IOM’s verification of successful completion of the following Project 
activities: 
i. XXXXX 
ii. XXXXX 
iii. XXXXX 
 
(c) The final instalment in the maximum amount of USD amount in numbers  (amount in 
letters US Dollars only), not exceeding the total eligible expenses reported by the Partner 
minus the sum of payment instalments already transferred by IOM, shall be due within 
fifteen (15) calendar days of completion of the Project, subject to IOM’s receipt and  
  Page 3 of 20 
 
approval of the final report as described in Article 7, IOM’s receipt of request for payment 
and IOM’s verification of successful completion of all Project activities. 
 
(d) If at the end of the reporting period covered by an interim report, less than 70% (seventy 
per cent) of the previous instalments provided by IOM have been reported by the Partner 
as funds utilized for the purposes of the Project implementation, the upcoming payment 
instalment shall be reduced by the unutilized portion of the previous payment 
instalments, unl ess the Partner justifies with a project financial forecast the need to 
maintain the instalment on a higher level not exceeding the contracted instalment 
amount.  
 
6.4  Any excess funds received by the Partner under this Agreement which are reported in the  final 
financial report by the Partner as not utilized for project implementation purposes shall be 
returned to IOM no later than the date of submission of the final report. 
 
6.5  All payables under this Agreement are due in USD. 
 
6.6  Payment shall be made by bank transfer in US dollars (USD) to the following bank account:  
 
Bank Name:  XXXXX 
Bank Branch: XXXXX 
Bank Account Name:  XXXXX 
Bank Account Number:  XXXXX 
Swift Code:  XXXXX 
IBAN Number:  XXXXX 
 
6.7  The Partner shall maintain financial records, supporting documents, statistical records and all 
other records relevant to the Project in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles 
to sufficiently substantiate all direct costs of whatever nature involving transactions related to the 
funds provided by IOM under this Agreement. The Partner shall make all such records available 
to IOM or IOM’s designated representative or the competent bodies of the funding Donor(s) of 
the Project at all reasonable times unt il the expiration of 7 (seven) years from the date of final 
payment, for inspection, audit or reproduction. On request, employees of the Partner shall be 
available for interviews. 
 
6.8  Any expenses found ineligible under the terms of this Agreement by IOM  or by the funding 
Donor(s) of the Project, shall be returned to IOM within 30 days from IOM’s written notification 
on the ineligibility of the expenses. 
 
6.9  IOM shall be entitled, without prejudice to any other rights or remedies it may have, to withhold 
payment of part or all of the Contribution until the Partner has completed to the satisfaction of 
IOM the activities to which those payments relate, or when IOM reasonably suspects that the 
Partner is in breach of any of the provisions in  Articles 8.1, 8 .2, or 8.3 of this Agreement , or 
pending a compliance review by IOM. 
 
  
  Page 4 of 20 
 
7. Reporting  
 
7.1  Financial Report  
 
7.1.1  A certified interim financial report shall be submitted to IOM no later than due date. The 
interim financial report shall present how the contribution from IOM and the Partner have 
been used from the start date of the Project to date. 
 
7.1.2  A certified final financial report shall be submitted to IOM no later than due date. The 
final financial report shall present how the Contribution from IOM has been used for the 
whole Project duration, as well as the Partner’s contribution. 
 
7.1.3  All expenses included in the interim or final financial reports by the Partner must meet 
the following minimum criteria: 
(a) They are incurred in accordance with the provisions of this agreement; and  
(b) They are necessary for carrying out the activities as described in the Project 
Document; and 
(c) They are foreseen in the Project Budget; and 
(d) They are incurred during the implementation period of this Agreement; and 
(e) They are genuine, reasonable, justified, comply with the principles of sound 
financial management; and 
(f) They are identifiable, verifiable and recorded in the Partner’s accounts in 
accordance with the accounting p ractices of the Partner and backed by 
supporting documents.  
 
7.1.4  As part of the financial report verification and approval process, IOM retains the right to 
receive certified copies of all documents supporting the expenses reported by the 
Partner.  
 
 7.2  Narrative Report 
 
 7.2.1 Interim narrative report(s) shall accompany each interim financial report. The interim 
narrative report(s) shall cover the activities performed and the results obtained by the 
Project during the relevant reporting period. The report(s) shall be analytical in approach, 
include a presentation of difficulties and shortcomings, and a discussion of possible 
remedies. 
 7.2.2  A final narrative report shall be submitted to IOM no later than  due date  and shall 
summarize the Partner’s activities for the Project and state to what extent the objectives 
of the Project have been achieved  in alignment with  the Monitoring and Evaluation 
Framework (including the Results Matrix) , project expenditure, lessons learnt, successes 
and failures and any risk factors and how they were handled. 
 
7.3 The Partner shall give IOM all information on the Project and on the use of the resources provided 
by IOM that IOM may reasonably request in addition to information contained in the reports. The 
Partner shall also enable representatives of IOM to visit and study the various activities of 
relevance for the Project. 
 
8. Warranties  
  Page 5 of 20 
 
 
8.1 The Partner represents and warrants that:  
(a) it is a company incorporated under the laws of legal jurisdiction of the Partner;  
(b) it has the right to enter into this Agreement, it has the authority and capacity to 
perform all its obligations hereunder, and all of its obligations hereunder are 
enforceable against it; and 
(c) the persons signing on behalf of the Partner has, on the date of the signature of this 
Agreement, full powers and all the authori zations required to sign this Agreement, 
as well as to perform all the obligations undertaken by and deriving from this 
Agreement. 
 
8.2  Each Party represents and warrants to the other Party that it has not, and undertakes to the other 
Party that it shall not, infringe any third party intellectual property rights in performing any 
activities pursuant to this Agreement. 
 
8.3  The Partner undertakes to IOM during this Agreement that: 
(a) it shall carry out all its activities in connection with this Agreement in compliance 
with any rules, regulations and laws applicable to it;  
(b) it shall inform IOM in writing prom ptly upon becoming aware of any event which 
breaches any undertaking set out herein. 
 
8.4  The Partner represents and warrants, and further undertakes, that:  
(a) neither the Partner nor any of its affiliates tolerates, or shall tolerate, any form of 
forced or compulsory or child labour, or is engaged in, or shall engage in, any practice 
inconsistent with human rights, including the rights set forth in the Convention on 
the Rights of the Child; 
(b) neither the Partner nor any of its affiliates is engaged in, or shall engage in, the sale 
or manufacture of weapons, antipersonnel mines or cluster bombs or their 
components; 
(c) neither the Partner nor any of its affiliates is engaged in, or shall engage in, either 
directly or indirectly, in terrorism, or the finance or supp ort of terrorism or the 
provision of goods or services to suppliers engaged in such activities as per the most 
recent Consolidated United Nations Security Council Sanctions List and all other 
applicable terrorism legislation; 
(d) It shall abide by the highest ethical standards in the performance of this Agreement, 
which includes not engaging in any fraudulent, corrupt, discriminatory or exploitative 
practice or practice inconsistent with the rights set forth in the Convention on the 
Rights of the Child. The Partner shall immediately inform IOM of any suspicion that 
the following practice may have occurred or exist: 
i. a corrupt practice, defined as the offering, giving, receiving or soliciting, directly 
or indirectly, of anything of value to influence the action of IOM in the selection 
process or in contract execution;   
  Page 6 of 20 
 
ii. a fraudulent practice, defined as any act or omissio n, including a 
misrepresentation or concealment, that knowingly or recklessly misleads, or 
attempts to mislead, IOM in the procurement process or the execution of a 
contract, to obtain a financial gain or other benefit or to avoid an obligation or in 
such a way as to cause a detriment to IOM;  
iii. a collusive practice, defined as an undisclosed arrangement between two or more 
bidders designed to artificially alter the results of the tender process to obtain a 
financial gain or other benefit;  
iv. a coercive practice, defined as impairing or harming, or threatening to impair or 
harm, directly or indirectly, any participant in the tender process to influence 
improperly its activities, or affect the execution of a contract;  
v. an obstructive practice, defined as (i) deli berately destroying, falsifying, altering 
or concealing of evidence material to IOM investigations, or making false 
statements to IOM investigators in order to materially impede a duly authorized 
investigation into allegations of fraudulent, corrupt, collu sive, coercive or 
unethical practices; and/or threatening, harassing or intimidating any party to 
prevent it from disclosing its knowledge of matters relevant to the investigation 
or from pursuing the investigation; or (ii) acts intended to materially impede the 
exercise of IOM’s contractual rights of access to information;  
vi. any other unethical practice contrary to the principles of efficiency and economy, 
equal opportunity and open competition, transparency in the process and 
adequate documentation, highest ethical standards in all procurement activities 
(e) The Partner warrants that it shall:  
1. Take all appropriate measures to prohibit and prevent actual, attempted and 
threatened sexual exploitation and abuse (“SEA”) by its employees or any other 
persons engaged and controlled by it to perform activities under this Agreement 
(“Other Personnel”). For the purpose of this Agreement, SEA shall include: 
i. Exchanging any money, goods, services, preferential treatment, job 
opportunities or other advantages for sexu al favors or activities, including 
humiliating or degrading treatment of a sexual nature; abu sing a position of 
vulnerability, differential power or trust for sexual purposes, and physical 
intrusion of a sexual nature whether by force or under unequal or c oercive 
conditions. 
ii. Engaging in sexual activity with a person under the age of 18 (“child”), except 
if the child is legally married to the concerned employee or Other Personnel and 
is over the age of majority or consent both in the child’s country of c itizenship 
and in the country of citizenship of the concerned employee or Other Personnel. 
2. Report timely any allegations or suspicions of SEA, and investigate and take 
appropriate corrective measures, including imposing disciplinary measures on the 
person who has committed SEA. 
(c) neither the Partner nor any of its affiliates operates, or shall operate in violation of 
United Nations Security Council sanctions;   
  Page 7 of 20 
 
(d) no officials of IOM have received or shall be offered by the Partner or any of its 
affiliates any direct or indirect benefit arising from this Agreement or its execution ; 
and 
(e) it shall respect the legal status, privileges , and immunities of IOM as an 
intergovernmental organization, such as inviolability of documents and archive 
wherever it is located, exemption from taxation, immunity from legal process  or 
national jurisdiction. In the event that the Partner becomes aware of any situation 
where IOM’s legal s tatus, privileges or immunities are not fully respected, it shall 
immediately inform IOM. 
 
8.5  IOM represents that: 
 
(a) IOM is firmly committed to the IOM Standards of Conduct and has a zero -tolerance 
towards irregular practices, wrongdoing and misconduct, including but not limited to 
financial malpractice, impropriety or fraud, failure to comply with rules, regulations 
or policies, criminal activity, professional malpractice, improper conduct or unethical 
behaviour, conflict of interest without disclosure, w aste of resources, abuse of 
authority, corruption and mismanagement, whether perpetrated by IOM staff, 
executing agencies, contractors or consultants. The Parties agree that it is important 
to take all necessary and reasonable precautions to avoid any irre gular practices, 
wrongdoing or misconduct. IOM takes all allegations of irregular practices, 
wrongdoing and misconduct seriously and shall conduct an investigation, if in IOM’s 
sole discretion, the allegation is deemed credible and merits an investigation.  All 
investigations shall be carried out in accordance with the IOM regulations, rules, 
directives, policies and procedures.  
 
(b) IOM has a zero -tolerance towards sexual exploitation and abuse. IOM takes all 
reasonable steps to prevent the sexual exploitation and abuse of any person linked 
to the delivery of the activities under this Agreement. Subject to the IOM regulations, 
rules, directives, policies, and procedures governing its operations, IOM shall without 
undue delay report any credible allegations or actual incidents of sexual exploitation 
and abuse related to this Agreement to the Secretary-General of the United Nations 
through the Secretary -General’s reporting mechanism on Sexual Exploitation and 
Abuse at https://www.un.org/preventing -sexual-exploitation-and-
abuse/content/data-allegations-un-system-wide. Such reporting on sexual 
exploitation and abuse shall be without prejudice to the privileges and immunities of 
IOM. 
 
(c) Consistent with applicable United Nations Security Council resolutions, IOM is firmly 
committed to the international fight against terrorism, and in particular, financing 
terrorism. IOM undertakes to use reasonable efforts to ensure that no resources 
provided to IOM under this Agreement, if any, are made available or used to provide 
support to individuals or entities associated with terrorism which are named on the 
United Nations Security Council Consolidated Sanctions List, as may be amended.  
 
9. Assignment/Subcontracting  
  Page 8 of 20 
 
 
9.1  The Partner shall not assign or subcontract the activities under this Agreement in part or all, unless 
agreed upon in writing in advance by IOM. Any subcontract entered into by the Partner without 
approval in writing by IOM may be cause for termination of the Agreement. 
 
9.2  In certain exceptional circumstances by prior written approval of IOM, specific jobs and portions 
of the activities may be assigned to a subcontractor. Notwithstanding the said written approval, 
the Partner shall not be relieved of any liability or obligation under this Agreement nor shall it 
create any contractual relation between the subcontractor and IOM. The Partner shall include in 
an agreement with a subcontractor all provisions in this Agreement that are applicable to a 
subcontractor, including relevant Warranties and Special Provisions. The Partner remains bound 
and liable under this Agreement and it shall be directly responsible to IOM for any faulty 
performance under the subcontract. The subcontractor shall have no cause of action against IOM 
for any breach of the subcontract. 
 
10. Procurement 
 
10.1  When awarding contracts, the Partner shall award the contract to the bidder offering best value 
for money (i.e. , the bidder offering the best price -quality ratio). The Partner shall evaluate the 
offers received against objective criteria which enable measuring the quality of the offers and 
which take into account the price and the aim of contracting the bidder offer ing the best value 
for money based on required technical specifications. 
 
10.2  The Partner is responsible for procurement of goods, services and works for the activities under 
this Agreement, in compliance with the procurement rules set out in this Article.  
 
10.3  The Partner shall ensure that its procurement procedures are no less rigorous than those outlined 
in this Article 10 and are in conformity with the following minimum rules:  
(a) The Partner shall prepare detailed specifications of the goods, service s and works 
required for Project activities;  
(b) Tenders for goods, works and services shall provide all information necessary for a 
prospective bidder to prepare a bid and, as such, shall be based upon a clear and accurate 
description of the proposed terms and conditions of the contract and the goods, services 
or works  to be procured;  
(c) The Partner shall implement reasonable measures to ensure that potential vendors shall 
be excluded from participation in a procurement or award procedure, if:  
i. they are subject to the UN Sanctions List or  in violation of any other applicable 
anti-terrorism legislation; or 
ii. they are bankrupt or being wound up, are having their affairs administered by the 
courts, have entered into an arrangement with creditors, have suspended 
business activities, are the subject of proceeding s concerning those matters, or 
are in any analogous situation arising from a similar procedure provided for in 
national legislation or regulations. 
 
10.4  The Partner shall maintain auditable records documenting in detail the tendering, contracting, 
receipt and use of goods, services and works procured under this Agreement.  
  
  Page 9 of 20 
 
10.5 IOM may conduct spot-checks of any procurement case file under this Agreement at any time and 
request to see documentation verifying that the procurement procedures of the Partner  
correspond to the standards set out in this Article.  
 
10.6 In the event of failure to comply with the provisions of this Article, the relevant costs may 
be declared ineligible. 
 
11. Delays, Defaults and Force Majeure  
 
11.1  If, for any reason, the Partner does not carry out or is not able to carry out its obligations under 
this Agreement and/or according to the Project Document, it must give notice and full particulars 
in writing to IOM as soon as possible. On receipt of such  notice, IOM shall take such action as in 
its sole discretion is considered to be appropriate or necessary in the circumstances. 
 
11.2  Neither Party will be liable for any delay in performing or failure to perform any of its obligations 
under this Agreeme nt if such delay or failure is caused by force majeure , which means any 
unforeseeable and irresistible act of nature, any act of war (whether declared or not), invasion, 
revolution, insurrection, terrorism, blockade or embargo, strikes, Governmental or sta te 
restrictions, natural disaster, epidemic, public health crisis, and any other circumstances which 
are not caused by nor within the control of the affected Party.  
 
 As soon as possible after the occurrence of a force majeure event which impacts the ability of the 
affected Party to comply with its obligations under this Agreement, the affected Party will give 
notice and full details in writing to the other Party of the existence of the force majeure event and 
the likelihood of delay. On receipt of such notice, the unaffected Party shall take such action as it 
reasonably considers appropriate or necessary in the circumstances, including granting to the 
affected Party a reasonable extension of time in which to perform its obligations. During the 
period of force majeure, the affected Party shall take all reasonable steps to minimize damages 
and resume performance. 
 
 IOM shall be entitled without liability to suspend or terminate the Agreement if the Partner is 
unable to perform its obligations under the Agreement by reason of force majeure. In the event 
of such suspension or termination, the provisions of Article 20 (Termination) shall apply. 
 
12. Independent Contractor 
 
This Agreement shall not be deemed to create any joint venture, joint liability partnership, association, or 
company of any sort between the Parties, nor shall any Party be deemed an agent of the other. The Parties 
shall be independent of each other and the relationship between them shall be that of two independent 
contractors. 
 
13. Confidentiality 
 
13.1 All information which comes into the Partner’s possession or knowledge in connection with this 
Agreement is to be treated as strictly confidential. The Partner shall not communicate such 
information to any third party without the prior written approval of IOM. The Partner shall comply 
with IOM Data Protection Principles (Annex C) in the event that it collects, receives, uses, transfers  
  Page 10 of 20 
 
or stores any personal data in the performance of this Agreement. These obligations shall survive 
the expiration or termination of this Agreement. 
 
13.2 Notwithstanding the previous paragraph, IOM may disclose information related to this 
Agreement, such as the name of the Partner and the value of the Agreement, the title of the 
contract/project, nature and purpose of the contract/project, name and locality/address of th e 
Partner and the amount of the contract/project to the extent as required by its Donor or in 
relation to IOM’s commitment to any initiative for transparency and accountability of funding 
received by IOM in accordance with the policies, instructions and regulations of IOM. 
 
13.3  IOM in line with its transparency commitments, encourages its partners to report via the 
International Aid Transparency Initiative (IATI) platform. IOM and the Partner shall refer to each 
other when reporting via the IATI standard using the following IATI identifier: 
- IOM: XM-DAC-47066 
 
14. Intellectual Property  
 
14.1  Each party will hold and retain all right, title  and interest in, and ownership of, its intellectual 
property and other proprietary rights including, but not limited to, patents, copyrights, 
trademarks and ownership of all its pre -existing data and products, and materials, as well as all 
such intellectual property independently developed. No license or other rights to such intellectual 
property or other proprietary rights are granted or implied hereby. 
 
14.2  Notwithstanding Article 14.1, the Partner hereby provides a license for IOM to use any Partner’s 
intellectual property as needed for and during the implementation of the Project. Furthermore, 
the Partner warrants that it has all rights to allow IOM to use, to the extent needed under the 
terms of this Agreement and for the implementation of the Projec t, any other third -party 
intellectual property provided in the course of this Agreement. 
 
14.3  All intellectual property and other proprietary rights including, but not limited to, patents, 
copyrights, trademarks and ownership of data resulting from this Agreement (the “Intellectual 
Property”) shall be vested in the creating party, including, withou t any limitation, the rights to 
use, reproduce, adapt, publish and distribute any item or part thereof. In the event that the 
Intellectual Property in question cannot be attributed to a single originating Party (“Jointly 
Developed IP”), each Party shall be entitled to a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, royalty-free, 
non-transferable license to use the Jointly Developed IP for non-commercial purposes. 
 
14.4  Notwithstanding Article 14.3, should the Partner wish to publish, distribute, or adapt  any data, 
materials or other creations under the Agreement related to the Project  or IOM, it shall obtain 
prior written approval from IOM. 
 
14.5  The Parties acknowledge that particular products or material related to or developed under the 
Project may be disseminat ed as deemed necessary by IOM under the Project . The Parties’ 
contributions to any such products or materials shall be duly acknowledged. 
 
15. Notices 
  
  Page 11 of 20 
 
Any notice given pursuant to this Agreement will be sufficiently given if it is in writing and received by the 
other Party at the following address: 
 
International Organization for Migration (IOM) 
Attn: XXXX 
XXXX  
Email: XXXXX 
 
XXXX 
Attn: XXXXX 
XXXXX  
E-mail: XXXXX  
 
 
16. Dispute Resolution  
 
16.1 Any dispute, controversy or claim arising out of or in relation to this Agreement, or the breach, 
termination or invalidity thereof, shall be settled amicably by negotiation between the Parties.  
 
16.2 In the event that the dispute, controversy or claim has not been resolved by negotiation within 3 
(three) months of receipt of the notice from one party of the existence of such dispute, 
controversy or claim, either Party may request that the dispute, controversy or claim is resolved 
by conciliation by one conciliator in accordance with the UNCITRAL Conciliation Rules of 1980. 
Article 16 of the UNCITRAL Conciliation Rules does not apply. 
 
16.3 In the event that such conciliation is unsuccessful, either Part y may submit the dispute, 
controversy or claim to arbitration no later than 3 (three) months following the date of 
termination of conciliation proceedings as per Article 15 of the UNCITRAL Conciliation Rules. The 
arbitration will be carried out in accordance with the 2010 UNCITRAL arbitration rules as adopted 
in 2013. The number of arbitrators shall be one and the language of arbitral proceedings shall be 
English, unless otherwise agreed by the Parties in writing. The arbitral tribunal shall have no 
authority to award punitive damages. The arbitral award will be final and binding.  
 
16.4 The present Agreement as well as the arbitration agreement above shall be governed by the terms 
of the present Agreement and supplemented by internationally accepted general principles of law 
for the issues not covered by the Agreement, to the exclusion of any single national system of law 
that would defer the Agreement to the laws of any given jurisdiction. Internationally accepted 
general principles of law shall be deemed t o include the UNIDROIT Principles of International 
Commercial Contracts. Dispute resolution shall be pursued confidentially by both Parties. This 
Article survives the expiration or termination of the present Agreement.  
 
17. Visibility and Use of IOM Name, Abbreviation and Emblem  
 
17.1  The name, abbreviation and emblem of IOM may only be used by the Partner in connection with 
the Project and with the prior written approval of IOM. The Partner must acknowledge the 
contribution of IOM and the Donor to the Project in any public statement or publication 
connected with the Project, and the content of such public statement or publication shall be 
approved by IOM in writing in advance. IOM, based on the requirements of the Donor, will verify  
  Page 12 of 20 
 
that the content/publications complies with such requirements.  In no event shall any 
authorisation by IOM to use the IOM name or emblem extend to use for commercial purposes or 
in any manner that suggests an endorsement, preference for or promotion of the Partner or 
Partner’s products, services or activities by IOM. 
 
17.2  The Partner acknowledges that use of the IOM name, abbreviation and emblem is strictly reserved 
for the official purposes of IOM and protected from unauthorized use by Article 6ter of the Paris 
Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property, revised in Stockholm in 1967 (828 UNTS 305 
(1972)). 
 
17.3  The Partner is familiar with the ideals and mandate of IOM and recognizes that IOM, and the IOM 
name, abbreviation and emblem may not be associated with any political or sectarian cause or 
otherwise used in a manner inconsistent with the status, reputation and neutrality of IOM. 
 
17.4  The Partner shall not represent to any third party or to the general public, or use for any purpose, 
any expression such as “selected”, “approved”, “warranted” or “preferred” by IOM or any similar 
endorsement.   
 
17.5  In no event shall the Partner express or imply that IOM has any financial or business interest in 
the business of the Partner. 
 
17.6  The Partner shall at all times defend, indemnify and hold harmless IOM, its officers, employees 
and agents from and against all loss, costs, damages and expenses (including legal fees and costs), 
claims, suits and liabilities to the extent arising out of or resulting from the Partner’s activities in 
connection with the use of IOM’s name, abbreviation and emblem under this Agreement . IOM 
shall promptly notify the Partner of any written claim, loss, or demand for which the Partner is 
responsible in connection with the use of IOM’s name, abbreviation and emblem under this 
Agreement. 
 
18.  Status of IOM 
 
Nothing in or relating to the Agreement shall be deemed a waiver, express or implied, of any of the 
privileges and immunities of the IOM as an intergovernmental organization. 
 
19.  Indemnity 
 
19.1  The Partner shall at all times defend, indemnify and hold harmless IOM, its officers, employ ees 
and agents from and against all loss, costs, damages and expenses (including legal fees and costs), 
claims, suits and liabilities  to the extent arising out of or resulting from the activities under this 
Agreement. IOM shall promptly notify the Partner of any written claim, loss, or demand for which 
the Partner is responsible under this clause.  
 
19.2  This indemnity shall survive the expiration or termination of this Agreement.  
 
20. Waiver 
 
Failure by either Party to insist in any one or more instances on a strict performance of any of the 
provisions of this Agreement shall not constitute a waiver or relinquishment of the right to enforce the  
  Page 13 of 20 
 
provisions of this Agreement in future instances, but this right shall continue and remain in full force and 
effect. 
 
21. Termination 
 
21.1  This Agreement may be terminated by X (XXX) months written notice to the other Party or 
suspended by IOM. However, where the Partner is in breach of any of the terms and conditions 
of this Agreement, IOM may terminate the Agreement with immediate effect.   
 
21.2  In the event of termination, the Partner shall take immediate steps to bring the performance of 
any obligations under the Agreement to a close in a prompt and orderly manner. IOM will only 
pay costs expended or legally committed in accordance with this Agr eement up to the date of 
receipt of notice of termination, unless otherwise agreed. Other amounts paid in advance will be 
returned to IOM within 7 (seven) days from the date of termination.   
 
21.3  Upon any such termination, the Partner shall waive any cl aims for damages including loss of 
anticipated profits on account thereof. 
 
21.4  In the event of suspension of this Agreement, IOM will specify the scope of activities and/or 
deliverables that shall be suspended in writing. All other rights and obligations of this Agreement 
shall remain applicable during the period of suspension. IOM will notify the Partner in writing 
when the suspension is lifted and may modify the completion date. The Partner shall not be 
entitled to claim or receive any Contribution or costs incurred during the period of suspension of 
this Agreement. 
 
22. Severability 
 
If any part of this Agreement is found to be invalid or unenforceable, that part will be severed from this 
Agreement and the remainder of the Agreement shall remain in full force. 
 
23. Entire Agreement 
 
This Agreement embodies the entire agreement between the Parties and supersedes all prior agreements 
and understandings, if any, relating to the subject matter of this Agreement.   
 
24. Final Clauses 
 
24.1  This Agreement will enter into force upon signature by both Parties. It will remain in force until 
completion of all obligations of the Parties under this Agreement unless terminated earlier in 
accordance with Article 21.  
 
24.2  Amendments may be made by mutual agreement in writing between the Parties.  
 
 
Signed in duplicate in English, on the dates and at the places indicated below.  
 
 
For and on behalf of   For and on behalf of       
  Page 14 of 20 
 
The International 
Organization for 
Migration 
Name of the Partner  
       
Signature  Signature     
 
 
 
    
 
  
Name:  Name:      
Position:  Position:      
Date:   Date:      
Place:  Place:     
 
   
  Page 15 of 20 
 
 
Annex A 
Project Document 
 
 
   
  Page 16 of 20 
 
 
 
Annex B 
Project Budget 
 
 
   
  Page 17 of 20 
 
Annex C 
IOM Data Protection Principles 
 
1: LAWFUL AND FAIR COLLECTION 
Personal data must be obtained by lawful and fair means with the knowledge or consent of the data 
subject. 
2:  SPECIFIED AND LEGITIMATE PURPOSE 
The purpose(s) for which personal data are collected and processed should be specified and legitimate , 
and should be known to the data subject at the time of collection. Personal data should only be used for 
the specified purpose(s),unless the data subject consents to further use or if such use is compatible with 
the original specified purpose(s). 
3:  DATA QUALITY 
Personal data sought and obtained should be adequate, relevant  and not excessive in relation to the 
specified purpose(s) of data collection and data processing. Data controllers should take all reasonable 
steps to ensure that personal data are accurate and up to date. 
4: CONSENT 
Consent must be obtained at the time of collection or as soon as it is reasonably practical thereafter, and 
the condition and legal capacity of certain vulnerable groups and individuals should always be taken into 
account. If exceptional circumstances hinder the achievement of consent, the data controller should, at a 
minimum, ensure that the data subject has sufficient knowledge to understand and appreciate the 
specified purpose(s) for which personal data are collected and processed.  
5:  TRANSFER TO THIRD PARTIES 
Personal data should only be transferred to third parties with the explicit consent of the data subject, for 
a specified purpose, and under the guarantee of adequate safeguards to protect the confidentiality of 
personal data and to ensure that the rights and interests of the data subj ect are respected. These three 
conditions of transfer should be guaranteed in writing. 
6:  CONFIDENTIALITY 
Confidentiality of personal data must be respected and applied to all the stages of data collection and 
data processing, and should be guaranteed in writing. All IOM staff and individuals representing third 
parties who are authorized to access and process personal data, are bound to confidentiality. 
7: ACCESS AND TRANSPARENCY 
Data subjects should be given an opportunity to verify their personal data, and should be provided with 
access insofar as it does not frustrate the specified purpose(s) for which perso nal data are collected and 
processed. Data controllers should ensure a general policy of openness towards the data subject about 
developments, practices and policies with respect to personal data. 
8:  DATA SECURITY 
Personal data must be kept secure, both t echnically and organizationally, and should be protected by 
reasonable and appropriate measures against unauthorized modification, tampering, unlawful 
destruction, accidental loss, improper disclosure or undue transfer. The safeguard measures outlined in 
relevant IOM policies and guidelines shall apply to the collection and processing of personal data. 
9:  RETENTION OF PERSONAL DATA 
Personal data should be kept for as long as is necessary, and should be destroyed or rendered anonymous 
as soon as the specified purpose(s) of data collection and data processing have been fulfilled. It may 
however, be retained for an additional specified period, if required for the benefit of the data subject. 
10:  APPLICATION OF THE PRINCIPLES 
These principles shall apply to both electronic and paper records of personal data, and may be 
supplemented by additional measures of protection, depending inter alia on the sensitivity of the personal 
data. These principles shall not apply to non-personal data.  
  Page 18 of 20 
 
11:  OWNERSHIP OF PERSONAL DATA 
IOM shall assume ownership of personal data collected directly from data subjects or collected on behalf 
of IOM, unless otherwise agreed, in writing, with a third party.  
12:  OVERSIGHT, COMPLIANCE AND INTERNAL REMEDIES 
An independent body should be appointed to oversee implementation of these principles and to 
investigate any complaints, and designated data protection focal points should assist with monitoring and 
training. Measures will be taken to remedy unlawful data collection and data processing, as well as breach 
of the rights and interests of the data subject. 
13:  EXCEPTIONS 
Any intent to derogate from these principles should first be referred to the IOM Legal Affairs Department 
for approval, as well as the relevant unit/department at IOM Headquarters. 
 
 
GLOSSARY  
 
Anonymous data means that all the personal identifiable factors have been removed from data sets in 
such a way that there is no reasonable likelihood that the data subject could be identified or traced. 
 
Consent means any free, voluntary and informed decision that is expressed or implied and which is given 
for a specified purpose.  
 
Child means any person under the age of 18 years. 
 
Data controller means IOM staff or an individual that represents a third party who has the authority to 
decide about the contents and use of personal data. 
 
Data processing means the manner in which personal data is collected, registered, stored, filed, retrieved, 
used, disseminated, communicated, transferred and destroyed.  
 
Data protection  means the systematic application of a set of institutional, technical and physical 
safeguards that preserve the right to privacy with respect to the collection, storage, use and disclosure of 
personal data. 
 
Data protection focal point  means any IOM staff that is appointed by IOM Regional Representatives to 
serve as a contact or reference person for data protection and who is responsible for monitoring the data 
protection practices in the region to which they are assigned. 
 
Data subject  means an IOM beneficiary that can be identified directly or indirectly by reference to a 
specific factor or factors. These factors include a name, an identification number, material circumstances 
and phy sical, mental, cultural, economic or social characteristics that can be used to identify an IOM 
beneficiary. 
 
Electronic record means any electronic data filing system that records personal data. 
 
Inter alia (Latin) means “amongst other things.” 
 
IOM means the International Organization for Migration. 
  
  Page 19 of 20 
 
IOM beneficiary means any person that receives assistance or benefits from an IOM project.  
 
IOM headquarters means IOM offices in Geneva, Switzerland. 
 
IOM staff means all persons who are employed by IOM, whether temporarily or permanently, including  
formal and informal interpreters, data -entry clerks, interns, researchers, designated counselors and 
medical practitioners. 
 
IOM unit/department means the structure at IOM headquarters responsible for IOM activity areas.   
 
Knowledge means the ability to fully understand and appreciate the specified purpose for which personal 
data are collected and processed. 
 
Non-personal data  means any information that does not relate to an identified or identifiable data 
subject. 
 
Paper record means any printed or written document that records personal data. 
 
Personal data means any information relating to an identified or identifiable data subject that is recorded 
by electronic means or on paper.  
 
Third party means any natural or legal person , government or any other entity that is not party to the 
original specified purpose(s) for which personal data are collected and processed. The third party that 
agrees in writing to the transfer conditions outlined in principle 5, shall be authorized to a ccess and 
process personal data. 
  
Vulnerable groups means any group or sector of society, including children, that are at exceptional risk of 
being subjected to discriminatory practices, violence, natural disasters, or economic hardships. 
 
Vulnerable individual means any IOM beneficiary that may lack the legal, social, physical or mental 
capacity to provide consent.  
 
   
  Page 20 of 20 
 
Annex D 
XXXXX 
 
 
 