 
 
Confidential 
LGL5000/Oct19 
 
  
 
VENDOR SERVICES AGREEMENT 
 
This Vendor Services Agreement No.       ("Agreement"), effective       (if left blank, the effective date shall be the date of last signature below), is made 
between Note to Drafter : Add Supplier name.], (  individual;  partnership,  corporation or limited liability company)  (Note to Drafter : Add Supplier 
company registration number) with offices located at Note to Drafter: Add Supplier address ("Service Provider" or “Supplier) and SAS Middle East, a company 
incorporated in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia ("KSA") with commercial registration number 1010304900, whose registered office i s 2nd Floor, Building C4, 
Business Gate, Airport Road, Exit 8, Riyadh, KSA   (“SAS”or “Customer”). When completed and executed by both parties, separate Work Authorizations shall 
specify the Services to be provided and SAS' payment obligation for such Services.  
 
 
 
1. Definitions  
1.1. The following definitions and rules of interpretation apply in this 
Agreement: 
Affiliate: in relation to a party, any entity that directly or indirectly controls, 
is controlled by, or is under common control with that party at the date of 
this Agreement. 
Applicable Laws: in relation to a party, all applicable laws, statutes, 
regulations from time to time in force  and binding and/or enforceable 
against such party. 
Business Day: a day, other than a weekend day or public holiday in KSA. 
Business Hours: the period from 9.00 am to 5.00 pm on any Business Day.  
Charges: the sums payable for the Services as set out in a Work 
Authorization. 
Confidential Information: Shall mean all information and materials 
disclosed by either Party to the other Party or acquired by either Party or 
any person acting on its behalf during the performance of its obligation 
under the Agreement, whether commercial, financial, technical or 
otherwise, whether or not marked confidential and however disclosed, 
and all matters arising during the performance of the Agreement, 
including without limitation, information that relates to business affairs, 
services and personnel.  
 
Controller, processor, data subject, personal data, personal data breach, 
processing and appropriate t echnical measures  (and analogous 
terminology): as defined in the Data Protection Legislation.  
Customer's Equipment: any equipment, including tools, systems, cabling or 
facilities, provided by the Customer, its agents, subcontractors or 
consultants which is used directly or indirectly in the supply of the Services 
including any such items specified in a Work Authorization 
Customer Materials: all documents, information, items and materials in any 
form, whether owned by the Customer or a third party, which are  provided 
by the Customer to the Supplier in connection with the Services 
Data Protection Legislation: the UK Data Protection Legislation  and any 
European Union legislation relating to personal data and all other legislation 
and regulatory requirements in force from time to time which apply to a 
party relating to the use of personal data (including, without limitation, the 
privacy of electronic communications.  all applicable data protection and 
privacy legislation in force from time to time in the UK including the General 
Data Protection Regulation ((EU) 2016/679); the Data Protection Act 2018; 
the Privacy and Electronic Communications Directive 2002/58/EC (as 
updated by Directive 2009/136/EC) and the Privacy and Electronic 
Communications Regulations 2003 (S I 2003/2426) as amended , and the 
Data Protection Legislation as applicable in  KSA 
Deliverables: any output of the Services to be provided by the Supplier to 
the Customer as specified in a Work Authorization. 
Intellectual Property Rights  (IPR): means tradem arks (registered or 
unregistered), service marks, trade names, logos, devices, domain names, 
business names, get -up, logos, patents, inventions, registered and 
unregistered design rights, copyright and related rights, moral rights, 
database rights, data, s pecifications, know how, trade secrets, rights in 
confidential information and all other similar rights in any part of the world 
including any registration of such rights and applications and rights to apply 
for such registrations.  
Milestone: a date by whi ch a part or all of the Services is to be completed, 
as set out in a Work Authorization. 
SAS Marks: means those designated as such within a Work Authorization.  
Supplier Marks; means those designated as such within a Work 
Authorization. 
Services; means work performed by Service Provider for SAS or its 
subsidiaries pursuant to a Work Authorization.  
Supplier's Equipment: any equipment, including tools, systems, cabling or 
facilities, provided by the Supplier to the Customer and used directly or 
indirectly in the supply of the Services, including any such items specified in 
a Work Authorization but excluding any such items which are the subject of 
a separate agreement between the parties under which title passes to the 
Customer. 
VAT: value added tax or analogous tax chargeable in relation to the Services. 
Work Authorization ; means a proposal, quote, SAS -issued purchase order 
or other mutually agreed -upon written vehicle for ordering Services under 
this Agreement. Each Work Authorization incorporates th e terms of this 
Agreement. 
1.2.  A person includes a natural person, corporate or unincorporated 
body (whether or not having separate legal personality).  
 
1.3.  The Schedules form part of this Agreement and shall have effect as if 
set out in full in the body of this Agreement. Any reference to this 
Agreement includes the Schedules.  
 
1.4.  A reference to a company shall include any company, corporation or 
other body corporate, wherever and however inco rporated or 
established. 
 
1.5. Unless the context otherwise requires, words in the singular shall 
include the plural and in the plural shall include the singular.  
 
1.6. Unless the context otherwise requires, a reference to one gender 
shall include a reference to the other gender.  
  
 
Confidential 
LGL5000/Oct19 
 
1.7. This Agreement shall be binding on, and enure to the benefit of, the 
parties to this Agreement and their respective personal 
representatives, successors and permitted assigns, and references to 
any party shall include that p arty's personal representatives, 
successors and permitted assigns.  
 
1.8. A reference to a statute or statutory provision shall include all 
subordinate legislation made from time to time under that statute or 
statutory provision. 
. 
2. Term and Termination 
2.1 This Agre ement will remain in effect until terminated in accordance 
with this Section 2. 
2.2 Either party may terminate this Agreement for convenience upon not 
less than 30 days  prior written notice to the other party, without the 
need for a court order.  
2.3 Either party may terminate this Agreement , without the need for a 
court order,  upon material breach by the other party if not cured 
within thirty (30) days of the breaching party’s receipt of the 
nonbreaching party’s written notice.   
2.4 Upon termination of this Agr eement or any Work Authorization for 
any reason, Service Provider shall promptly return all SAS property of 
whatever nature or kind provided under the applicable Work 
Authorization(s).  Service Provider shall also furnish to SAS all work in 
progress or por tions thereof in whatever form. SAS will pay Service 
Provider for any Services which have been completed and delivered as 
of the date of termination.  
2.5 The parties’ rights and obligations under Sections 3, 5, and 6  and 
Subsection 4.6 shall survive the termin ation of this Agreement and/or 
any Work Authorization.  
3. Payment for Services   
3.1 SAS will pay Service Provider according to the agreed -upon fees set 
forth in the Work Authorization.  
3.2 SAS shall withhold from any and all payments made by SAS to Service 
Provider any and all amounts SAS shall be required to withhold under 
Applicable Law in respect of withholding taxes or any other duties, fees 
and other impositions as may be levied under Applicable Law.  SAS 
shall not gross up or be required to gross up any paymen ts in respect 
of any such withholding taxes or any other duties, fees and other 
impositions as may be levied under Applicable Law.  
3.3 Any additional services requested by SAS or any change in the scope 
of Services in a specific Work Authorization must be (i) evidenced by 
an additional or amended Work Authorization referencing this 
Agreement and the applicable purchase order, and (ii) pre-approved 
in writing by an authorized representative of SAS. Otherwise, any work 
that exceeds or alters the scope of Services  described in a Work 
Authorization shall be provided at no additional charge.  
3.4 SAS will pay for actual expenses incurred by Service Provider related 
to the Services, provided that all such expenses are reasonable, have 
been pre-approved by an authorized rep resentative of SAS and are in 
accordance with SAS’ Travel Policy, available upon request.  
3.5 Unless otherwise specified in the applicable Work Authorization, 
Service Provider shall invoice SAS for the Services and pre -approved 
expenses upon completion of the Services.  Invoices submitted to SAS 
for payment must reference the appropriate purchase order; failure to 
do so will result in the invoice being returned to Service Provider 
unpaid.  
3.6 SAS will pay all undisputed amounts invoiced within forty-five (45)  
days of receipt of the invoice.  In no event will final payment be made 
until all Services identified in a Work Authorization have been 
accepted by SAS.   
4. Service Provider Respo nsibilities 
4.1 Unless otherwise expressly specified in the applicable Work 
Authorization, Service Provider shall not subcontract any of Service 
Provider's obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of 
SAS.   Service Provider agrees to abide by SAS’ Business Partner Code 
of Conduct.   
4.2 Service Provider shall not access SAS’ computing resources without 
SAS’ prior written authorization.  Service Provider agrees to reasonably 
cooperate with SAS to provide the information necessary for SAS to 
engage a third party vendor to perform background verification for 
each person who will require access to SAS’ computing resources. 
Failure to comply with this Section 4.2 may result in termination of this 
Agreement. 
4.3 Service Provider, assumes the responsibility for payment of all taxes, 
as well as all payroll taxes and any other fees or contributions arising 
from the operation of Service Provider's business.  Service Provider 
shall be responsible for any liability or d amages resulting from a 
breach of this Subsection 4.3. 
4.4 Unless otherwise expressly specified in the applicable Work 
Authorization or in the description of insurance below, Service 
Provider shall for the term of this Agreement provide and maintain in 
full fo rce and effect, at no additional cost to SAS, the following 
minimum amounts of insurance:  
Commercial General Liability * - coverage on a primary, non -
contributing, occurrence basis with coverage for (i) 
premises/operations (including medical payments),  (ii ) 
products/completed operations, and (iii) personal injury. Minimum 
limits for bodily injury and property damage shall be $1,000,000 each 
occurrence.  If Service Provider will be onsite at SAS’ premises, this 
policy must include SAS as an additional insure d in relation to the 
Services. 
Commercial Automobile Liability* - covering all motor vehicles, owned 
or non-owned, used by Service Provider in providing Services, with a 
minimum limit of $1,000,000 each accident for bodily injury and 
property damage. This insurance is not required if Service Provider will 
not be onsite at SAS’ premises.   
Workers' Compensation - sufficient to meet statutory liability limits in 
the state in which the Services are being performed; and Employer's 
Liability - minimum limits of $500,000 each accident.  
Professional Liability - coverage of $1,000,000 per occurrence/claims -
made basis, if specified in the applicable Work Authorization.  
Cyber Liability – coverage of $5,000,000 per occurrence and aggregate, 
covering network and privacy  risks (including coverage for 
unauthorized access, failure of security, breach of privacy perils, 
wrongful disclosure of information, notification costs, and regulatory 
defense) in the performance of Services for SAS or on behalf of SAS, if 
specified in the applicable Work Authorization. Such insurance shall be 
maintained in force at all times during the term of this Agreement and 
for a period of two (2) years thereafter for Services completed during 
the term of this Agreement.  
*or Umbrella Liability coverage sufficient to meet limits stated above.   
 
Confidential 
LGL5000/Oct19 
 
4.5 A Certificate or Memorandum of Insurance evidencing the required 
coverage and limits will be furnished to SAS before any Services are 
performed under this Agreement and annually thereafter.   
4.6 Service Provider shall treat as confidential and shall not directly or 
indirectly use, disseminate, disclose or publish any data or information 
obtained during the performance of Services related to SAS facilities 
and computer resources, research, process, prod ucts and product 
development, customers, purchasing, accounting, personnel or other 
internal matters, which is not available to the public or which is not 
otherwise a matter of public record.  No right or license, express or 
implied, is granted hereunder f or the use of any of SAS’ trademarks, 
logos or other proprietary information, including but not limited to use 
of SAS’ name or logo in a customer list.  
 
5. Warranties and Indemnification  
5.1 Service Provider warrants that Service Provider shall render Services 
(i) in a diligent, conscientious and workmanlike manner; and (ii) in 
strict compliance with all applicable laws and government regulations, 
codes and ordinances. 
5.2 Service Provider warrants that Service Provider is under no obligation 
or restriction that would  in any way prevent or interfere with Service 
Provider's ability to perform the obligations under this Agreement.  
5.3 Service Provider warrants that any materials provided by Service 
Provider or its subcontractors in connection with the delivery of 
Services wi ll not infringe upon any patents, copyrights or any other 
rights of third parties. 
5.4 Service Provider warrants that any goods supplied under this 
Agreement are free and clear of all liens, claims, or encumbrances of 
any kind. Service Provider further warrant s that all goods are new 
unless otherwise stated and are fit for the purpose for which such 
goods are ordinarily employed.  Service Provider represents that it is 
authorized to transfer manufacturer’s warranties to SAS.   
5.5 Service Provider assumes full resp onsibility for performance of 
Services by Service Provider and any of its employees or 
subcontractors. Service Provider agrees to indemnify and hold SAS 
harmless from any liability, debt, cost, damages and reasonable 
attorneys' fees to the extent caused by  or arising out of such 
performance of Services by Service Provider, its employees or 
subcontractors, including but not limited to third party claims arising 
from breach of any warranty hereunder and injury to persons or 
damage to property. 
5.6 Service Provide r warrants it is entitled to enter into this Agreement 
and to carry out its duties under it . 
5.7 Service Provider warrants it shall ensure that while any of its personnel 
are on the Customer premises that they will conform to all relevant 
codes of staff and security practice including, but not limited to health 
and safety regulations, IT policies and mobile phone policies.  
5.8 In addition Service Provider warrants (a) that Service Provider and 
permitted subcontractors shall render Services on SAS’ premises: (i) in 
a diligent, conscientious, and workmanlike manner and (ii) in strict 
compliance with all Applicable Laws and governm ent regulations, 
codes, ordinances, proclamations, or orders, including, but not limited 
to, taking all required actions and safeguards relating to any public 
health emergency, including the COVID -19 pandemic, and (b) that, 
without limiting any portion of subsections (i) and (ii) above, all 
Services on SAS’ premises shall be performed by employees and 
permitted subcontractors who, based on all required and/or 
reasonable inquiry, verification and/or testing, are not believed or 
known to have COVID -19 or any other communicable disease (unless 
such status is otherwise protected by law).  In addition to and without 
limiting any of the indemnification obligations in the Agreement, 
Service Provider shall indemnify and hold SAS harmless from any 
liability, debt, co st, damages and reasonable attorneys' fees to the 
extent caused by or arising out of the performance of Services by 
Service Provider, its employees or subcontractors, including, but not 
limited to, third party claims arising from breach of any warranty 
hereunder and injury to persons or damage to property . 
5.9 In any event, neither party shall be liable for any (a) loss of profits 
(whether actual or anticipated); (b) loss of revenue; (c) loss of 
anticipated savings; (d) loss of business; (e) loss of opportunity; (f) loss 
of goodwill; or for any indirect, special, consequential or incidental loss 
or damage however arising. Notwithstanding the above, nothing in 
this Agreement shall exclude or limit the liability of either party for, 
death or personal injury caused  by the negligence of a party, or for  
deceit or any fraudulent misrepresentation.  
5.10 The total amount the Supplier may recover from SAS during the Period 
for all claims relating to the Agreement is limited in the aggregate to 
100% of fees paid. 
5.11 Nothing in this condition shall be interpreted as excluding liability for 
negligence resulting in death or personal injury.  
6. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY  
6.1 SAS shall be the sole owner of all proceeds in any form developed 
pursuant to this Agreement (“Work Product”), including but not 
limited to any marketing collateral in tangible or electronic form, 
any notes or other written materials; and any research, inc luding 
interviews.  
6.2 The Supplier agrees that all IPR in the Work Product are 
automatically assigned at the time of creation, without any 
requirement of further consideration.   
6.3 Upon SAS’ request, Supplier shall take such further actions as may 
be required to give full and proper effect to such assignment(s). 
Supplier further agrees that SAS shall have the sole and exclusive 
right to use, exploit, merchandise, and publish the Work Product in 
any form and in any and all media, whether now known or 
hereafter devised, throughout the world, in all languages, as SAS in 
its sole discretion shall determine.   If and to the extent that, 
according to the law of any jurisdiction, at any time such rights, 
title, and interest do not vest or cannot be assigned by Supplier as 
provided in this section, Supplier herewith irrevocably agrees to 
assign, convey and transfer and hereby does assign, convey and 
transfer to SAS all rights that can be assigned pursuant to this 
section to the fullest extent possible and permissible and 
irrevocably agrees to grant, and hereby does grant, to SAS an 
unlimited, exclusive, irrevocable, worldwide, assignable, 
transferable, perpetual, sub-licenseable and royalty -free license to 
use, exploit and commercialize in any manner now known or in the 
future discovered and for whatever purpose, any rights that did not 
vest and/or cannot be assigned as contemplated by this section.   
6.4 Any use of the Work Product by the Supplier is at the sole discretion 
of and subject to prior written approval from SAS.  Su pplier 
understands and agrees that SAS owns or controls all assets, 
images, marketing collateral, and other materials that SAS and its 
authorized contractors provide to Supplier (“SAS Assets”), including 
any SAS Assets provided via SAS’ electronic asset ma nagement 
system, and that Supplier has no right or interest to use the SAS 
Assets other than to perform the Services hereunder.   
 
Confidential 
LGL5000/Oct19 
 
6.5 Upon termination of this Agreement and the relevant Work 
Authorization (or upon termination or expiration of any Schedule 
hereunder) the Supplier shall return or destroy the SAS Assets as 
provided in the Confidentiality Section.  
6.6 Supplier agrees that it will appropriately manage access to the 
online resources provided by SAS including but not limited to:  
6.6.1 restricting access to auth orized Supplier employees only;  
6.6.2 confining portal use solely to the scope and duration of Services 
(detailed in a particular Schedule - to be added if there is a 
Schedule attached to the Agreement), and  
6.6.3 decommissioning login credentials immediately upon 
completion of a project and/or when individuals leave Supplier’s 
employment.  
6.7 To the fullest extent allowed by law, Supplier hereby expressly and 
irrevocably waives in favour of SAS or its nominee, any and all moral 
rights arising under statute, treaty or at common law that Supplier 
has now or may have in the future with respect to any Work 
Product prepared by Supplier hereunder.  Such moral rights 
include, without limitation, the right to attribution of authorship, 
the right to restrain distortion and modific ation and the right to 
prohibit any use of any such Work Product in association with a 
product, service, cause or institution that might be prejudicial to 
Supplier’s honour or reputation.  
6.8 Neither Party shall acquire any interest in the other’s IPR, except as 
expressly provided in the Work Authorization.  
6.9 Supplier warrants that it has procured SAS with a worldwide, 
nonexclusive, royalty-free, non-transferable, irrevocable licence to 
use the IPR in the Supplier’s Marks solely for purposes of enabling 
SAS to ex ploit its rights and comply with its obligations under this 
Agreement.  
6.10 Supplier warrants that it is the owner or licensee of the IPR in the 
Supplier’s Materials, and that the use of the Supplier’s Marks by 
SAS shall not infringe any third party’s IPR  
6.11 Supplier will defend and indemnify SAS with respect to any claim 
made against SAS for IPR violation or infringement relating to the 
Supplier’s Marks. SAS agrees to notify Supplier in writing of any 
such claim, to allow Supplier to control the litigation or  settlement 
of any such claim and to cooperate with Supplier in the 
investigation, defence and settlement thereof. Supplier shall 
indemnify SAS by paying for the costs and legal fees SAS incurs. SAS 
may participate at SAS’s own expense. For the avoidance o f doubt, 
this clause will not apply if the claim also relates to an IPR violation 
or infringement relating to SAS’s marks.  
6.12 SAS hereby grants the Supplier a worldwide, nonexclusive, royalty -
free, non -transferable, revocable licence for the term of this 
Agreement to use the SAS Marks strictly for the purposes of 
enabling the Supplier to perform its obligations under this 
Agreement.  SAS shall retain all its IPR used as part of this 
Agreement and any goodwill derived from the Supplier’s use of 
SAS’s IPR, including the SAS Marks, shall be for the benefit of SAS.  
6.13 The Supplier shall:  
6.13.1 use the SAS Marks in the form and manner in which they are 
supplied by SAS, and subject to SAS’s prior written approval and 
in accordance with SAS Trademark and Logo Guidelines; and   
6.13.2 not acquire any interest in the SAS Marks, not (knowingly) do 
anything which may endanger SAS’s rights in the SAS Marks, and 
not use or apply to register any of the SAS Marks or any trade 
mark that is confusingly similar to a SAS Mark  
7. ANTI-BRIBERY 
7.1 Each Party shall: 
7.1.1 comply with all Applicable Laws, statutes and regulations 
relating to anti-bribery, anti-corruption, anti-fraud and/or the 
offering of any unlawful or improper inducement when carrying 
any activities under this Agreement;  
7.1.2 notify its officers, directors, consultants and agents of the ir 
obligations under this section; and  
7.1.3 ensure that each of its subcontractors and suppliers shall 
comply with any applicable anti-bribery and anti-corruption 
laws in force; 
7.1.4 The Supplier confirms it has read SAS’s anti -bribery and anti-
corruption policies available at 
https://www.sas.com/en_gb/company -information/corporate-
social-responsibility.html#governance  and agrees to maintain its 
own substantially similar policies and procedures to ensure 
compliance with the applicable laws, and will enforce these 
where appropriate; 
 
8. ANTI- SLAVERY 
8.1 In performing its obligations under the Agreement, the Supplier shall:  
8.1.1 comply with all applicable anti -slavery and human trafficking 
laws, statutes, regulations and codes from time to time in force 
including but not limited t o the Modern Slavery Act 2015; and  
8.1.2 read and understand SAS’s modern slavery statement available 
at https://www.sas.com/en_gb/company -
information/corporate-socialresponsibility.html#governance  
(SAS Modern Slavery Statement) and SAS’s policies regarding 
doing business in an ethical and transparent manner as referred 
to in the SAS Modern Slavery Statement (SAS Anti -Slavery 
Policies), and shall maintain its own substantially similar policies 
and procedures to ensure compliance with the applicable laws, 
and enforce these where appropriate.  
9. Confidential Information 
9.1 Both Parties undertake to each other:  
9.2 To keep confidential all Confidential Information belonging to the 
other at any time during the Agreement and for a period of five 
years after termination; 
9.3 To treat Confidential Information belonging to the other with the 
degree of care as it uses for its own Confidential Information but in 
no event less than a commercially reasonable standard of care; 
9.4 Not without the written consent of the other, to disclose Confidential 
Information in whole or in part save to those of its employees,  
 
Confidential 
LGL5000/Oct19 
 
agents and subcontractors involved in the provision or receipt of 
the Services and who need to know the Confidential Information in 
question      
9.5 To use the Confidential Information belonging to the other solely in 
connection with the provision or receipt of the Services and not for 
its own benefit or the benefit of any third party;  
9.6 To make all relevant employees and subcont ractors aware of the 
provisions of this clause 9 and to take all reasonable steps to ensure 
that its employees, agents, and subcontractors comply with the 
provisions of this clause 9 
9.7 The provisions of clauses 9.1 to 9.5 shall not apply to any information 
which is received from a third party who lawfully acquired it and 
who is under no obligation restricting its disclosure.  
9.8 Except as permitted in clause 9.9, each party undertakes that it shall 
not at any time, disclose to  any person certain Confidential 
Information of the other party concerning the other party’s 
business, plan, customer, clients, suppliers, technology, products 
and other information which the other party holds. Confidential 
Information shall also include i nformation of either party in a 
tangible or intangible form that is marked or designated as 
confidential.  
9.9 Each party may disclose the other party's Confidential Information: 
9.9.1 to its employees, officers, representatives or advisers who need 
to know such information for the purposes of exercising the 
party's rights or carrying out its obligations under or in 
connection with this Agreement.; and 
9.9.2  as may be required by law, a court of competent jurisdiction or 
any governmental or regulatory authority.  
9.10 In the event that the Confidential Information must be disclosed 
pursuant to judicial order or requirement of law, the receiving party 
shall immediat ely notify the disclosing party of such order or 
requirement and shall take all available steps to limit such 
disclosure. 
9.11 No party shall use any other party's Confidential Information for any 
purpose other than to exercise its rights and perform its obligations 
under or in connection with this Agreement. 
9.12 Upon termination, Supplier agrees to return any SAS Confidential 
Information and all copies thereof (including electronic copies), or 
destroy the Confidential Information. In the event of destruction, 
Supplier shall have an authorized representative certify this to SAS.  
9.13 Supplier shall not remove any proprietary, copyright, trade secret or 
other legend from any form of the SAS Confidential Information.  
Supplier shall not copy or reproduce, in whole or in par t, any 
Confidential Information without written authorization of SAS.  
Supplier agrees that should any unauthorized disclosure or use of 
SAS Confidential Information be made by Supplier, Supplier will (i) 
immediately notify SAS of same; (ii) take all reaso nably necessary 
steps to prevent further unauthorized disclosure and/or use; (iii) 
cooperate with SAS in its efforts to secure the Confidential 
Information and protect SAS’ proprietary rights therein.  
9.14 Each party shall ensure that its employees, officers, representatives or 
advisers to whom it discloses the other party's Confidential 
Information complies with this Schedule.  
9.15 The obligations in this section survive termination of this Agreement. 
10. General 
10.1 SAS has the right to inspect work at any time, stop work, require 
changes to the work, and request modifications to the Services to 
address safety and environmental concerns affecting SAS or its 
employees.  
10.2 SAS reserves the right to employ other providers of the same or similar 
services as those provided by the Service Provider hereunder. 
10.3 Each party is an independent contractor under this Agreement, 
without any authority to bind the other.  Nothing in this Agreement 
constitutes nor shall be deemed to consti tute either party being an 
agent of the other party, whether for the purposes of any applicable 
commercial agencies law or otherwise.  
 
10.4 This Agreement may not be assigned in whole or in part by the Service 
Provider without the prior written permission of SA S.  Any attempt to 
do so is void.  This Agreement shall be binding on the parties and upon 
their respective heirs, administrators, successors, and permitted 
assigns. 
10.5 All notices, including address change, required to be sent hereunder 
shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been given when 
delivered to the respective representatives listed in the applicable 
Work Authorization. Legal notices to SAS must be sent to the attention 
of the Office of the General Counsel.  
10.6 Third party rights. No one other than a party to this Agreement shall 
have any right to enforce any of its terms.  
10.7 To the extent that either party has acquired or later acquires any 
immunity (sovereign  or otherwise) from any legal action, suit, or 
proceeding, from jurisdiction of any court, or from setoff or any legal 
process with respect to itself or any of its property, such party 
irrevocably waives and agrees not to plead or claim such immunity 
with respect to any action, suit or proceeding brought under or in 
relation to this Agreement . 
10.8 Governing law. This Agreement and any dispute or claim (including 
non-contractual disputes or claims) arising out of or in connection with 
it or its subject matter or  formation  shall be governed by, and 
construed in accordance with, the law s of England and Wales.  
10.9 Jurisdiction. Any dispute arising out of or in connection with this 
Agreement, including any question regarding its existence, validity or 
termination, shall  be referred to and finally resolved by arbitration 
under the Arbitration Rules of the Dubai International Arbitration 
Centre, which Rules are deemed to be incorporated by reference into 
this clause.  The number of arbitrators shall be three.  The seat of 
arbitration shall be the Dubai International Financial Centre (DIFC). The 
language to be used in the arbitration shall be English. . 
10.10 If any part of this Agreement is held unenforceable or invalid, the 
remaining provisions shall remain in full force and effect. 
10.11 The waiver by either party of any default or breach of this Agreement 
shall not constitute a waiver of any other or subsequent default or 
breach.   
10.12 The parties acknowledge that they have read this Agreement, 
understand it, and agree to be bound by its terms and conditions.  
Further, they agree that the complete, exclusive and final statement 
of agreement between the parties relating to the subject matter shall 
consist of this Agreement and any Exhibits or Work Authorizations 
thereto.  If the terms o f this Agreement conflict with the terms of a 
Work Authorization, the terms of the Work Authorization shall control.  
 
Confidential 
LGL5000/Oct19 
 
This Agreement supersedes all proposals or other prior agreements 
not referencing this Agreement, oral or written, and all other 
communications between the parties relating to the subject.  This 
Agreement cannot be modified except by a subsequent writing signed 
by an authorized representative of Service Provider and SAS.  
 
 
Signature page follows. 
  
 
Executed by Service Provider:       
 
 Executed by SAS Middle East 
 
 
Authorized Signature:  
 
 _________________________________________________________  
 
  
Authorized Signature: 
 
 ___________________________________________________________  
 
 
Name:            
  
Name:        
 
 
Title:         
 
  
Title:         
 
 
Date:        
 
  
Date:       
 
 
 
LGL5000/Oct19 
 
 
SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. i n the USA and other countries.  ® 
indicates USA registration.  Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies.  
 
 
 