بطاقة النظام
System Labor Law
Date of issuance 23 / 8 / 1426 
Date of 
Publication 25 /9 /1426 
Instruments 
• Royal Decree No. M/51 dated 23 / 8 / 1426
• Council of Ministers Resolution No. 219 
dated 22 / 8 / 1426
Status Active 
المركز للنظام راجع الأصليةا لنصية للإطلاع وفي حالة الرغبة في الحصول على الوثيقة هذه النسخة : تنويه
وظاتا لوطني للوثائق والمحف. 
LABOR LAW
Royal Decree No. M/١٥
٣٢Sha'ban ٦٢٤١ / ٧٢September ٥٠٠٢
PART I
DEFINITIONS AND GENERAL PROVISIONS
Page 1 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201Chapter One
Definitions
Article (١ :)
This law shall be called the Labor Law. 
Article (٢ :)
The following terms and phrases, whenever mentioned in this Law, shall have the 
meanings expressed next to them, unless the context requires otherwise: 
Ministry: Ministry of Labor. 
Minister: Minister of Labor. 
Labor Office: The administrative authority assuming jurisdiction over the labor affairs within an 
area specified by a decision of the Minister. 
Employer: Any natural or corporate person employing one or more workers for a wage.
Worker: Any natural person working for an employer and under his management or 
supervision for a wage, even if he is not under his direct control. 
Minor: Any person of fifteen and below eighteen years of age. 
Work: The effort exerted in all human activities in execution of a (written or unwritten) work 
contract regardless of their nature or kind, be they industrial, trade, agricultural, technical or 
otherwise, whether physical or mental. 
Original Work: For individuals: Their usual business activities. For firms: The activities for 
Page 2 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201which the firm has been established as stated in its articles of incorporation, franchise contract 
– if a franchise company- or Commercial Register. 
Temporary Work: Work considered by its nature to be part of the employer’s activities, the 
completion of which requires a specific period or relates to a specific job and ends with its 
completion. It shall not exceed ninety days in either case. 
Incidental Work: Work that is not considered by its nature to be part of the usual activities of 
an employer, and its execution does not require more than ninety days. 
Seasonal Work: Work that takes place in known periodical seasons. 
Part-time Work: Work performed by a part-time worker for an employer and for less than half 
the usual daily working hours at the firm, whether such a worker works on a daily basis or on 
certain days of the week. 
Continuous Service: Uninterrupted service of a worker for the same employer or his legal 
successor from the starting date of service. Service shall be deemed continuous in the 
following cases: 
(١Official holidays and vacations. 
(٢Interruptions for sitting for examinations in accordance with the provisions of this Law. 
(٣Worker’s unpaid absences from work for intermittent periods not exceeding twenty days 
per work year. 
Basic Wage: All that is given to the worker for his work by virtue of a written or unwritten work 
contract regardless of the kind of wage or its method of payment, in addition to periodic 
increments. 
Actual Wage: The basic wage plus all other due increments decided for the worker for the 
effort he exerts at work or for risks he encounters in performing his work, or those decided for 
the worker for the work under the work contract or work organization regulation. This 
includes: 
(١The commission or percentage from sales or profits paid against what the worker markets, 
produces, collects or realizes from increased or enhanced production. 
(٢Allowances the worker is entitled to for exerted effort, or risks he encounters while 
performing his job. 
Page 3 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201(٣Increments that may be granted in accordance with the standard of living or to meet family 
expenses. 
(٤Grant or reward: What the employer grants to the worker and what is paid to him for 
honesty or efficiency and the like, if such grant or reward is stipulated in the work contract or 
the work organization regulation of the firm or if customarily granted to the extent that the 
workers consider it part of the wage rather than a donation. 
(٥In rem privileges: what the employer commits himself to provide to the worker for his work 
by stating it in the work contract or the work organization regulation and its estimated at a 
maximum of two months basic wage per annum, unless it is otherwise determined to exceed 
that in the work contract or the work organization regulation. 
Wage: actual wage. 
Firm: Any enterprise run by a natural or corporate person who employs one or more workers 
for a wage of any kind.
Month: Thirty days, unless it is otherwise specified in the work contract or the work 
organization regulation. 
Regulations: The Implementing Regulations of this Law. 
Chapter Two
General Provisions
Article (٣ :)
Work is the right of every citizen. No one else may exercise such right unless the 
conditions provided for in this Law are fulfilled. All citizens are equal in the right to work. 
Article (٤ :)
When implementing the provisions of this Law, the employer and the worker shall adhere 
to the provisions of Shari'ah. 
Page 4 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201Article (٥ :)
The provisions of this Law shall apply to: 
(١Any contract whereby a person commits himself to work for an employer and under his 
management or supervision for a wage. 
(٢Workers of the government and public organizations and institutions including those who 
work in pastures or agriculture. 
(٣Workers of charitable institutions. 
(٤Workers of agricultural and pastoral firms that employ ten or more workers. 
(٥Workers of agricultural firms that process their own products. 
(٦Workers who operate or repair agricultural machineries on a permanent basis. 
(٧Qualification and training contracts with workers other than those working for the employer 
within the limits of the special provisions provided for in this Law. 
(٨Part-time workers with respect to safety, occupational health and work injuries, as well as 
what is decided by the Minister. 
Article (٦ :)
Incidental, seasonal and temporary workers shall be subject to the provisions on duties 
and disciplinary rules, the maximum working hours, daily and weekly rest intervals, overtime 
work, official holidays, safety rules, occupational health, work injuries and compensation 
therefore as well as whatever is decided by the Minister. 
Article (٧ :)
Page 5 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201The following shall be exempted from the implementation of the provisions of this Law: 
(١The employer's family members, namely, the spouse, the ascendants and descendants who 
constitute the only workers of the firm. 
(٢Domestic helpers and the like. 
(٣Sea workers working on board of vessels with a load of less than five hundred tons. 
(٤Agricultural workers other than the categories stated in Article (٥of this Law. 
(٥Non-Saudi workers entering the Kingdom to perform a specific task for a period not 
exceeding two months. 
(٦Players and coaches of sports clubs and federations. 
The Ministry shall, in coordination with the competent authorities, draft regulations for 
domestic helpers and the like to govern their relations with their employers and specify the 
rights and duties of each party and submit the same to the Council of Ministers. 
Article (٨ :)
Any condition that contradicts the provisions of this Law shall be deemed null and void. 
The same applies to any release or settlement of the worker’s rights arising from this Law 
during the validity of the work contract, unless the same is more beneficial to the worker. 
Article (٩ :)
Arabic shall be the language used for data, records, files, work contracts and the like as 
provided for in this Law or in any decision issued in implementation of its provisions as well as 
the instructions issued by the employer to his workers.
If the employer uses a foreign language beside Arabic in any of the mentioned cases, the 
Arabic text shall prevail. 
Page 6 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201Article (٠١ :)
All periods and schedules provided for in this Law shall be according to Hegira calendar, 
unless otherwise stated in the work contract or the work organization regulation. 
Article (١١ :)
(١If the employer assigns all or part of his original business to a natural or corporate person, 
the latter shall give his workers all the rights and privileges which the original employer gives 
to his workers, and both of them shall be jointly and severally liable. 
(٢In case of multiple employers, all of them shall be jointly and severally responsible for the 
fulfillment of the obligations arising from this Law and the work contracts. 
Article (٢١ :)
Both the employer and the worker shall be familiar with the provisions of the Labor Law in 
all its contents so that each of them shall be aware of his position and of his rights and duties. 
Any employer who employs ten or more workers shall submit to the Ministry, a work 
organization regulation including internal work provisions, within a year of the effective date of 
this Law or from the date of reaching the quota. Such regulations shall include the work 
organization rules and all related provisions including the provisions related to privileges, 
violations and disciplinary penalties, not contradicting the provisions of this Law. 
Article (٣١ :)
Page 7 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201The Ministry shall approve the work organization regulation and all amendments to it 
within sixty days from the date of its submission to the Ministry. 
If such period elapses without approval or objection, the regulation shall be considered 
effective as of the end of such period. 
The employer shall announce the regulation by displaying it in a prominent location in the firm 
or by any other means that ensures the workers’ awareness thereof. 
Article (٤١ :)
A model(s) work organization regulation shall be issued pursuant to a decision by the 
Minister for the guidance of employers. 
Article (٥١ :)
An employer shall, upon commencement of work in the firm, notify the competent labor 
office in writing of the following data: 
(١Name, type and headquarters of the firm, as well as its mailing address and any 
information that facilitates contact therewith. 
(٢Line of business for which it is licensed, providing the number of the Commercial Register 
or the license, its date and issuing authority, together with a copy thereof. 
(٣Number of workers to be employed in the firm.
(٤Name of the firm’s manager in-charge.
(٥Any other data required by the Ministry. 
Page 8 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201Article (٦١ :)
(١If the employer is unable to run the business in person, he shall designate a representative 
at the workplace. In case of multiple partners or managers in the firm, one of them, from 
among those residing at the place of work, shall be nominated to represent the employer and 
be liable for any violation of the provisions of this Law.
(٢The employer shall notify the competent labor office in writing of the name of the partner 
or manager, and, in case of his replacement, he shall notify the labor office of the name of the 
new partner or manager within seven days at most of the date of the latter’s assuming the 
job. 
(٣In case no manager is appointed to be in charge of the firm, or if the appointed manager 
does not assume his duties, then the person who actually runs the firm or the employer 
himself shall be considered the manager in charge of the firm. 
In all cases, the employer is ultimately liable. 
Article (٧١ :)
An employer shall maintain at the workplace records, statements and files the nature and 
contents of which shall be specified in the regulations. He shall display at a prominent location 
at the workplace a schedule of working hours, breaks, weekly rest days and time of start and 
end of each shift, when operating in shifts. 
Article (٨١ :)
If the ownership of a firm is transferred to a new owner or a change takes place in its 
legal form through merger, partition or otherwise, the work contracts shall remain in force in 
both cases and service shall be deemed continuous. As for workers’ rights accrued for the 
period prior to the change such as wages or unrealized end- of- service award on the date of 
transfer of ownership and other rights, the predecessor and the successor shall be jointly and 
Page 9 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201severally liable. However, in the case of transfer of ownership of individual firms, for any 
reason, the predecessor and the successor may agree to transfer all the previous rights of the 
worker to the new owner with the written consent of the worker. If the worker disapproves, he 
may request the termination of his contract and collect his dues from the predecessor. 
Article (٩١ :)
Amounts due to the worker or his heirs under this Law shall be deemed first rate 
privileged debts and the worker and his heirs shall, for the purpose of settling them, be 
entitled to a privilege over all the employer’s properties. In the case of bankruptcy of the 
employer or liquidation of his firm, the aforementioned amounts shall be entered as privileged 
debts and the worker is paid an expedited amount equivalent to one month wage prior to 
payment of any other expenses including judicial, bankruptcy or liquidation expenses. 
Article (٠٢ :)
An employer or a worker may not perform any act that may abuse the provisions of this 
Law or the decisions or regulations issued for its implementation. Neither of them may 
undertake any act that infringes upon the freedom of the other or the freedom of other 
workers or employers to realize any interest or impose a point of view that conflicts with the 
freedom of work or the jurisdiction of the competent authority in charge of settlement of 
disputes. 
Article (١٢ :)
Page 10 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201The Minister, in implementing the provisions of this Law, shall coordinate with relevant 
authorities whenever necessary. 
PART II
ORGANIZATION OF RECRUITMENT
Chapter One
Employment Units
Article (٢٢ :)
The Ministry shall provide employment units, free of charge, at locations convenient for 
employers and workers, which shall undertake the following: 
(١Assisting workers in finding suitable jobs and aiding employers in recruiting suitable 
workers. 
(٢Gathering necessary information on the labor market and its developments and analyzing 
such information to make it available to various public and private organizations concerned 
with economic and social planning affairs. 
(٣Performing the following duties: 
(٣-١Registration of job seekers. 
(٣-٢Obtaining data on vacant jobs from employers. 
(٣-٣Referring workers’ applications to suitable vacant jobs. 
(٣-٤Providing advice and assistance to job seekers with respect to vocational qualification and 
training or the required retraining to fill vacancies.
(٣-٥Other matters decided by the Ministry. 
Page 11 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201Article (٣٢ :)
Every citizen of working age who is capable of and willing to work may register his name 
at the employment unit, his date of birth, qualifications, previous employment, preferences 
and address. 
Article (٤٢ :)
The regulations shall specify the rules for work progress and procedures at the 
employment units, forms of registers, notices and others used for its work as well as the job 
classification tables, according to the official job classification, which shall be the basis for 
organization of recruitment. 
Article (٥٢ :)
Every employer shall send the following to the competent labor office: 
(١A statement of vacant and new jobs, their types, locations, wages, and qualifications within 
a period not exceeding fifteen days from the date of vacancy or creation. 
(٢A notice of measures taken to employ the citizens nominated by the employment unit 
within seven days from receiving the nomination letter. 
(٣A list of names, jobs, professions, wages, ages, nationalities of his workers, numbers and 
dates of work permits for non- Saudis and other data specified in the Regulations. 
(٤A report on the status, conditions and nature of work and the anticipated increase or 
Page 12 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201decrease in jobs during the year following the date of the report. 
(٥The statements specified in Paragraphs (٣and (٤of this Article shall be sent during the 
month of Muharram every year. 
Article (٦٢ :)
(١All firms in all fields, and regardless of number of workers, shall work to attract and employ 
Saudis, provide conditions to keep them on the job and avail them of an adequate opportunity 
to prove their suitability for the job by guiding, training and qualifying them for their assigned 
jobs. 
(٢The percentage of Saudi workers employed by the employer shall not be less than ٥٧of 
the total number of his workers. The Minister may temporarily reduce this percentage in case 
of non-availability of adequate technically or academically qualified workers or if it is not 
possible to fill the vacant jobs with nationals. 
Article (٧٢ :)
The Minister may – when necessary in respect of certain activities and professions and in 
some provinces and counties - require employers not employ workers until they have been 
registered at the employment units under the terms and conditions specified pursuant to his 
decision. 
Chapter Two
Employment of the Disabled
Page 13 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201Article (٨٢ :)
Each employer employing twenty- five workers or more where the nature of his work 
allows recruitment of the professionally disabled shall employ a number of disabled that 
represents at least ٤of the total number of his workers whether through nomination by the 
employment units or otherwise, and he shall send to the competent labor office a list of the 
jobs and posts occupied by the professionally rehabilitated disabled persons and their wages. 
Article (٩٢ :)
If a worker sustains a work injury that results in a loss in his usual capabilities that does 
not prevent him from performing another job, the employer, in whose service the work injury 
was sustained, shall employ said worker in a suitable job for the wage specified for such job. 
This shall not prejudice the worker's compensation for the injury. 
Chapter Three
Private Offices for Recruitment of Citizens
and Private Offices for Recruitment from Abroad
Article (٠٣ :)
A natural or corporate person may not engage in the recruitment of Saudis or in the 
recruitment of workers from abroad unless licensed for the same by the Ministry. The 
Regulations shall determine the functions of these two types of activities, the conditions for 
Page 14 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201granting and renewing a license to each of them, the duties and prohibitions as well as rules 
for non-renewal or revocation of the license and the consequences thereof and other 
conditions and controls necessary for ensuring the proper conduct of business. 
Article (١٣ :)
The Saudi workers to whose employment the recruitment offices contributed and the 
workers recruited from abroad on behalf of the employers shall be deemed workers of the 
employer and bound to him by direct contractual relation. 
PART III 
EMPLOYMENT OF NON-SAUDIS
Article (٢٣ :)
Recruitment from abroad for the purpose of work may not be undertaken without the 
approval of the Ministry. 
Article (٣٣ :)
A non- Saudi may not engage in or be allowed to engage in any work except after 
obtaining a work permit from the Ministry, according to the form prepared by it for this 
purpose. 
Page 15 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201The conditions for granting the permit are as follows: 
(١The worker has lawfully entered the country and is authorized to work. 
(٢He possesses the professional and academic qualifications which the country needs and 
which are not possessed by citizens or the available number of such citizens is insufficient to 
meet the needs, or that he belongs to the class of ordinary workers that the country needs. 
(٣He has a contract with the employer and is under his responsibility. 
The word "work" in this Article means any industrial, commercial, agricultural, financial or 
other work, and any service including domestic service. 
Article (٤٣ :)
No permit or license required by any other agency for engaging in a work or a profession 
may substitute for the said work permit. 
Article (٥٣ :)
Prior to renewing the work permit, it shall be ascertained that none of the Saudi applicants 
possesses the required qualifications and is willing to undertake the same work. 
Article (٦٣ :)
The Minister shall issue a decision specifying the professions and jobs which are prohibited 
for non-Saudis. 
Page 16 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201Article (٧٣ :)
The work contract for non-Saudis shall be written and of a specified period. If the contract 
does not specify the duration, the duration of the work permit shall be deemed as the duration 
of the contract. 
Article (٨٣ :)
An employer may not employ the worker in a profession other than the one specified in 
his work permit. Before following the legal procedures for changing the profession, a worker is 
prohibited to engage in a profession other than his. 
Article (٩٣ :)
(١Unless he has followed the stipulated legal rules and procedures, an employer may not 
allow his worker to work for others, and a worker may not work for other employers. Similarly, 
an employer may not employ workers of other employers. 
(٢An employer may not allow a worker to work for his own account and a worker may not 
work for his own account. 
Article (٠٤ :)
Page 17 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201(١An employer shall incur the fees pertaining to recruitment of non-Saudi workers, the fees 
of the residence permit (Iqama) and work permit together with their renewal and the fines 
resulting from their delay, as well as the fees pertaining to change of profession, exit and re-
entry visas and return tickets to the worker’s home country at the end of the relation between 
the two parties. 
(٢A worker shall incur the costs of returning to his home country if he is unfit for work or if 
he wishes to return to his home country without a legitimate reason. 
(٣An employer shall bear the fees of transferring the services of a worker who wishes to 
transfer his service to him. 
(٤An employer shall be responsible for the cost of preparing the body of a deceased worker 
and transporting it to the location where the contract was concluded, or where the worker was 
recruited unless the worker is interred in the Kingdom with the approval of his family. The 
employer shall be relieved if the General Organization for Social Insurance (GOSI) undertakes 
the same. 
Article (١٤ :)
The Regulations shall specify the conditions for recruitment from abroad, transfer of 
services and change of profession, and the controls and procedures thereof. 
PART IV
TRAINING AND QUALIFICATION
Page 18 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201Chapter One
Training and Qualification of the Employer’s Workers
Article (٢٤ :)
An employer shall be required to prepare his Saudi workers and enhance their technical, 
administrative, vocational and other skills for the purpose of gradually replacing non-Saudis. 
The employer shall keep a record showing the names of the Saudi workers who have replaced 
the non-Saudis in accordance with the conditions and rules set forth in the Regulations. 
Article (٣٤ :)
Without prejudice to the conditions set forth in concession and other agreements relative 
to training, qualification, education, and scholarships, every employer employing fifty or more 
workers shall annually train, in his business, a number of his Saudi workers not less than ٦ %
of the total number of his workers. The Minister may raise this percentage in certain firms 
pursuant to a decision by him. 
Article (٤٤ :)
The training program shall provide for the rules and conditions to be followed in training, 
its duration, number of hours, the theoretical and practical training programs, method of 
testing and certificates to be granted in this regard. The Regulations shall set forth the general 
criteria and rules to be followed in this regard to raise the worker’s level of performance in 
terms of skills and productivity. 
Page 19 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201Chapter Two
Qualification and Training Contract 
of Workers other than the Employer’s
Article (٥٤ :)
The training or qualification contract is a contract which commits the employer to train 
and qualify a person for a specific profession. 
Article (٦٤ :)
The training or qualification contract shall be in writing, indicating the profession for which 
the training is contracted, the duration of training and successive stages, and the allowance to 
be paid to the trainee in each stage, provided that it is not based on piecemeal or productivity. 
Article (٧٤ :)
The Minister may require the firms, to be identified pursuant to a decision by him, to 
accept a certain number or percentage of the students and graduates of colleges, institutes 
and centers to receive training and supplementary practical experience in accordance with the 
conditions, circumstances, durations and trainee allowances to be specified in an agreement to 
be concluded between the Ministry and the management of the relevant firm. 
Page 20 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201Article (٨٤ :)
The employer may terminate the training or qualification contract if the trainee, in his 
opinion, is not amenable to or incapable of completing the training program in a beneficial 
manner. The trainee, his guardian or trustee shall have the same right. The party wishing to 
terminate the contract shall notify the other party at least one week prior to the date of 
cessation of the training. The employer may require the trainee to work for him upon 
completion of the training period for a period not to exceed twice the duration of the training 
or one year, whichever is longer. 
Article (٩٤ :)
The training and qualification contract shall be subject to this Law’s provisions on annual 
vacations, official holidays, maximum working hours, daily and weekly rest periods, 
occupational health and safety rules, work injuries and their conditions as well as whatever is 
decided by the Minister. 
PART V
WORK REALATIONS
Page 21 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201Chapter One
Work contract
Article (٠٥ :)
A work contract is a contract concluded between an employer and a worker, whereby the 
latter undertakes to work under the management or supervision of the former for a wage. 
Article (١٥ :)
The work contract shall be in duplicates, one copy to be retained by each of the two 
parties. However, a contract shall be deemed to exist even if not written. In this case the 
worker alone may establish the contract and his entitlements arising therefrom by all methods 
of proof. Either party may at any time demand that the contract be in writing. 
As for workers of the government and public corporations, the appointment decision or order 
issued by the competent authority shall serve as the contract. 
Article (٢٥ :)
The work contract shall primarily include the name of the employer, venue, the name of 
the worker, nationality, identification, wage agreed upon, type and location of work, date of 
employment, duration of the contract if fixed, subject to the provisions of Article ٧٣of this 
Law. 
Page 22 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201Article (٣٥ :)
If the worker is subject to a probation period, the same shall be expressly stated and 
clearly indicated in the work contract. Such probation period shall not exceed ninety days, 
exclusive of Eid al-Fitr and Eid al-Adha holidays and sick leaves. Each party shall have the right 
to terminate the contract during this period, unless the contract embodies a clause giving the 
right to terminate the contract to only one of them. 
Article (٤٥ :)
A worker may not be placed on probation more than once by the same employer. As an 
exception to this, the worker may, with the approval of the contract parties, be subjected to 
another probation period of not more than ninety days on the condition that this period 
involves another profession or work. If the contract is terminated during the probation period, 
neither party shall be entitled to compensation nor shall the worker be entitled to an end-of-
service award. 
Article (٥٥ :)
(١The fixed-term contract shall terminate upon expiration of its term. If the two parties 
continue to implement it, it shall be deemed renewed for an indefinite period of time, subject 
to the provisions of Article (٧٣of this Law for non-Saudi workers. 
(٢If the fixed-term contract incorporates a clause providing for its renewal for a similar term 
or a specified term, the contract shall be renewed for the period agreed upon. If the contract is 
renewed for two consecutive terms or if the original contract term and the renewal period 
amount to three years, whichever is less, and the two parties continue to implement it, the 
contract shall become an indefinite term contract. 
Page 23 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201Article (٦٥ :)
In all cases where the contract term is renewed for a specific period of time, the contract 
renewal period shall be an extension of the original term in determining the worker’s rights 
which takes into account the worker’s period of service. 
Article (٧٥ :)
If the contract involves performance of a specific work, it shall terminate with the 
completion of the work agreed upon. 
Article (٨٥ :)
The employer may not transfer the worker from his original workplace to another place 
that entails a change in his place of residence, if such transfer is likely to cause serious harm 
to the worker and is not justified by the nature of work. 
Article (٩٥ :)
A monthly-paid worker may not be reclassified as a daily-paid, a weekly-paid or an hourly-
paid worker nor as a worker paid by piecework, unless the worker agrees thereto in writing 
and without prejudice to the rights he has acquired during the period he spent as a monthly-
paid worker. 
Page 24 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201Article (٠٦ :)
Without prejudice to the provisions of Article (٨٣of this Law, a worker may not be 
assigned duties which are essentially different from the work agreed upon without his written 
consent, except in cases of necessity dictated by transient circumstances and for a period not 
exceeding thirty days a year. 
Chapter Two
Duties and Disciplinary Rules
First: Employers’ Duties
Article (١٦ :)
In addition to the duties provided for in this Law and the regulations and decisions issued 
for its implementation, the employer shall be required to: 
(١Refrain from using the worker without pay and shall not, without a judicial instrument, 
withhold the worker’s wages or any part thereof. The employer shall treat his workers with due 
respect and refrain from any action or utterances that may infringe upon their dignity and 
religion. 
(٢Give the workers the time required to exercise their rights as provided for in this Law 
without any deductions from their wages against such time. He may regulate the exercise of 
Page 25 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201this right in a manner not detrimental to the work progress. 
(٣Facilitate for the employees of the competent authorities any task related to the 
enforcement of the provisions of this Law. 
Article (٢٦ :)
If the worker reports to work on the prescribed time or expresses his readiness to perform 
his work at such times but is prevented from doing so only by a cause which is ascribed to the 
employer, the worker shall be entitled to the wage for the period during which no work is 
performed. 
Article (٣٦ :)
The employer, his agents, or any person having authority over the workers shall forbid 
entry of any illegal substances into the places of work. Anyone who is found in possession of or 
consumes such substance shall be subject to the punishments provided for in this Law on, 
without prejudice to the other punishments provided for in Shari’ah. 
Article (٤٦ :)
Upon expiration of the work contract, the employer shall be required to:
(١Give the worker, upon his request and free of charge, a certificate of work experience, 
indicating date of his employment, date of end of work, his profession, and the last wage 
received. If the certificate contains any remarks that are prejudicial to the worker’s reputation 
or likely to limit his employment chances, the reasons shall be given. 
Page 26 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201(٢Return to the worker all certificates and documents he had submitted. 
Second: Worker’s Duties
Article (٥٦ :)
In addition to the duties provided for in this Law and the regulations and decisions in 
implementation thereof, the worker shall be required to:
(١Perform the work in accordance with the trade practice and the employer’s instructions 
provided that such instructions do not conflict with the contract, the law or public morality and 
that they do not expose him to any undue hazards. 
(٢Take due care of the employer’s machinery, tools, supplies and raw materials placed at his 
disposal or in his custody and return to the employers the unused materials. 
(٣Abide by proper conduct and ethical norms during work. 
(٤Extend all assistance and help without making it contingent on additional pay in cases of 
disasters or hazards threatening the workplace or the persons working therein. 
(٥Undergo, upon the employer’s request, the medical examinations required prior to or 
during employment to ensure that he is free from occupational or communicable diseases. 
(٦Keep confidential the technical, trade and industrial secrets of the products or which he 
directly or indirectly contributed to their production, as well as all trade secrets related to the 
work or the firm, the disclosure of which is likely to cause damage to the employer’s interests. 
Third: Disciplinary Rules
Page 27 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201Article (٦٦ :)
The disciplinary penalties that the employer may inflict on the worker: 
(١Warning. 
(٢Fines. 
(٣Withholding allowance or postponing it for a period not exceeding one year if prescribed by 
the employer. 
(٤Postponement of promotion for a period not exceeding one year if prescribed by the 
employer. 
(٥Suspension from work and withholding of wages. 
(٦Dismissal from work in cases set forth by the law. 
Article (٧٦ :)
An employer may not inflict on a worker a penalty not provided for in this Law or in the 
work organization regulation. 
Article (٨٦ :)
The penalty shall not be made harsher in the event of repeated violation if one hundred 
eighty days have elapsed since the previous violation was committed, calculated from the date 
the worker is informed of the penalty for that violation. 
Page 28 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201Article (٩٦ :)
A worker may not be accused of any offense discovered after the elapse of more than 
thirty days, nor shall he be subjected to a disciplinary penalty after the elapse of more than 
thirty days from conclusion of the investigation and establishment of the worker’s guilt. 
Article (٠٧ :)
A worker may not be subjected to disciplinary penalty for an act committed outside the 
workplace unless such act is related to the job, the employer or the manager in-charge. 
Nor may a worker be fined for a single violation an amount in excess of a five-day wage, and 
no more than one penalty shall be applied for the same violation. No more than a five-day 
wage shall be deducted from his wages in one month in payment of fines, or his suspension 
from work without pay may not exceed five days a month. 
Article (١٧ :)
A disciplinary action may not be imposed on a worker except after notifying him in writing 
of the allegations, interrogating him, hearing his defense and recording the same in minutes to 
be kept in his file. The interrogation may be verbal in minor violations the penalty for which 
does not go beyond a warning or a deduction of a one-day salary. This shall be recorded in 
minutes. 
Page 29 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201Article (٢٧ :)
The worker shall be notified in writing of the decision of imposing the penalty on him. If he 
refuses to receive the same or if he is absent, the notice shall be sent to the address shown in 
his file by registered mail. The worker may object to the decision of imposing the penalty upon 
him within fifteen days, excluding official holidays, from the date of notifying him of the final 
decision. The objection shall be filed with the Commission for the Settlement of Labor Disputes 
which shall be required to issue its decision within thirty days from the date of registering the 
objection. 
Article (٣٧ :)
Fines imposed on the workers shall be entered in a special record, showing the worker’s 
name, his wages, the amount of the fine, reasons and date of the fine. Such fines may not be 
disposed of except for the benefit of the firm’s workers, upon the Ministry’s approval. 
Chapter Three
Termination of Work Contract: 
Article (٤٧ :)
A work contract shall terminate in the following cases:
(١If both parties agree to terminate it, provided that the worker’s consent be in writing. 
(٢If the term specified in the contract expires, unless the contract has been explicitly 
renewed in accordance with the provisions of this Law in which case it shall remain in force 
until the expiry of its term. 
Page 30 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201(٣At the discretion of either party in indefinite term contracts. 
(٤The worker attains the age of retirement, which is sixty years for males and fifty five years 
for females, unless the two parties agree upon continuing work after this age. The retirement 
age may be reduced in cases of early retirement as provided for in the work organization 
regulation. If it is a fixed-term work contract which extends beyond the retirement age, it shall 
terminate at the end of its term. 
(٥Force majeure. 
The provisions of Paragraph (٤of this Article shall apply two years after this Law enters into 
force. 
Article (٥٧ :)
If the contract is of an indefinite term, either party may terminate it for a valid reason to 
be specified in a written notice to be served to the other party at least thirty days prior to the 
termination date if the worker is paid monthly and not less than fifteen days for others. 
Article (٦٧ :)
If the party terminating the contract does not observe the period provided for in Article 
(٥٧of this Law, such party shall be required to pay the other party compensation equal to the 
worker’s wage for the duration of the notice or the balance thereof. The last wage received by 
the worker shall serve as the basis for estimating the compensation for workers who are paid 
by the time frame criterion. For workers who are paid by another criterion, the estimation shall 
take into account the provisions of Article (٦٩of this Law. 
Page 31 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201Article (٧٧ :)
If the contract is terminated for an invalid reason, the party who is harmed by such 
termination shall be entitled to indemnity to be assessed by the Commission for the 
Settlement of Labor Disputes, taking into account the termination circumstances and actual 
and potential material and moral damages sustained. 
Article (٨٧ :)
A worker who has been dismissed from work without valid reason may demand 
reinstatement. Such claims shall be considered in accordance with the provisions of this Law 
and the Litigation Regulations before the Commissions for the Settlement of Labor Disputes. 
Article (٩٧ :)
A work contract shall not expire by the death of the employer unless his person has been 
taken into consideration in concluding the contract, but shall expire with the death or 
incapacity of the worker in accordance with a medical report approved by the competent 
health authority or the authorized physician designated by the employer. 
Article (٠٨ :)
An employer may not terminate the contract without an award, advance notice or 
indemnity except in the following cases, and provided that he gives the worker a chance to 
state his reasons for objecting to the termination: 
Page 32 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201(١If, during or by reason of the work, the worker assaults the employer, the manager in-
charge or any of his superiors. 
(٢If the worker fails to perform his essential obligations arising from the work contract, or to 
obey legitimate orders, or if, in spite of written warnings, he deliberately fails to observe the 
instructions related to the safety of work and workers as may be posted by the employer in a 
prominent place. 
(٣If it is established that the worker has committed a misconduct or an act infringing on 
honesty or integrity. 
(٤If the worker deliberately commits any act or default with the intent to cause material loss 
to the employer, provided that the latter shall report the incident to the appropriate authorities 
within twenty-four hours from being aware of such occurrence. 
(٥If the worker resorts to forgery in order to obtain the job. 
(٦If the worker is hired on probation. 
(٧If the worker is absent without valid reason for more than twenty days in one year or for 
more than ten consecutive days, provided that the dismissal be preceded by a written warning 
from the employer to the worker if the latter is absent for ten days in the first case and for five 
days in the second. 
(٨If the worker unlawfully takes advantage of his position for personal gain. 
(٩If the worker discloses work- related industrial or commercial secrets. 
Article (١٨ :)
Without prejudice to all of his statutory rights, a worker may leave his job without notice 
in any of the following cases: 
Page 33 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201(١If the employer fails to fulfill his essential contractual or statutory obligations towards the 
worker. 
(٢If the employer or his representative resorts to fraud at the time of contracting with 
respect to the work conditions and circumstances. 
(٣If the employer assigns the worker, without his consent, to perform a work which is 
essentially different from the work agreed upon and in violation of provisions of Article (٠٦of 
this Law. 
(٤If the employer, a family member or the manager in-charge commits a violent assault or 
an immoral act against the worker or any of his family members. 
(٥If the treatment by the employer or the manager in-charge is characterized by cruelty, 
injustice or insult. 
(٦If there exists in the workplace a serious hazard threatening the safety or health of the 
worker, provided that the employer is aware thereof but fails to take measures indicating its 
removal. 
(٧If the employer or his representative, through his actions and particularly his unjust 
treatment or violation of the terms of the contract, has caused the worker to appear as the 
party terminating the contract. 
Article (٢٨ :)
An employer may not terminate the worker’s services on account of illness prior to 
availing him of the period designated for sick leave as provided for in this Law. The worker 
may request that his sick leave be combined with his annual leave. 
Page 34 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201Article (٣٨ :)
If the work assigned to the worker allows him to get acquainted with the employer’s 
customers, or to have access to his business secrets, the employer may require the worker in 
the contract not to compete with him or reveal his secrets upon expiration of the contract. For 
this condition to be valid, it shall be in writing and specific in terms of time, place and type of 
work and to the extent required to protect the legitimate interests of the employer. In all 
cases, the duration of such agreement shall not exceed two years from the date of termination 
of the relationship between the two parties. 
Chapter Four
End-of-Service Award
Article (٤٨ :)
Upon the end of the work relation, the employer shall pay the worker an end-of-service 
award of a half-month wage for each of the first five years and a one-month wage for each of 
the following years. The end-of-service award shall be calculated on the basis of the last wage 
and the worker shall be entitled to an end-of-service award for the portions of the year in 
proportion to the time spent on the job. 
Article (٥٨ :)
If the work relation ends due to the worker’s resignation, he shall, in this case, be entitled 
to one third of the award after a service of not less than two consecutive years and not more 
than five years, to two thirds if his service is in excess of five successive years but less than 
ten years and to the full award if his service amounts to ten or more years. 
Page 35 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201Article (٦٨ :)
As an exception to the provision of Article (٨of this Law, it may be agreed that the wage 
used as a basis for calculating the end-of-service award does not include all or some of the 
commissions, sales percentages, and similar wage components paid to the worker which are 
by their nature subject to increase or decrease. 
Article (٧٨ :)
As an exception to the provisions of Article (٥٨of this Law, the worker shall be entitled to 
the full award if he leaves the work due to a force majeure beyond his control. A female 
worker shall likewise be entitled to the full award if she ends her contract within six months 
from the date of her marriage or three months from the date of giving birth. 
Article (٨٨ :)
Upon the end of the worker’s service, the employer shall pay his wages and settle his 
entitlements within a maximum period of one week from the date of the end of the contractual 
relation. If the worker ends the contract, the employer shall settle all his entitlements within a 
period not exceeding two weeks. The employer may deduct any work-related debt due to him 
from the worker’s entitlements. 
Page 36 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201PART VI
WORK CONDITIONS AND CIRCUMSTANCES
Chapter One
Wages
Article (٩٨ :)
The Council of Ministers may, when necessary and upon a proposal by the Minister, set a 
minimum wage. 
Article (٠٩ :)
(١The worker’s wages and all other entitlements shall be paid in the Country’s official 
currency. Wages shall be paid during working hours and at the workplace in accordance with 
the following provisions: 
(١.١Workers paid on a daily basis shall be paid at least once a week. 
(١.٢Workers paid on a monthly basis shall be paid once a month. 
(١.٣If the work is done by the piece and requires a period of more than two weeks, the 
worker shall receive a payment each week commensurate with the completed portion of the 
work. The balance of the wage shall be paid in full during the week following delivery of the 
work. 
Page 37 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201(١.٤In cases other than the above, the worker’s wages shall be paid at least once a week. 
(٢Wages may be paid through accredited banks in the Kingdom, with the consent of the 
worker, provided that their due dates do not exceed the dates specified above. 
Article (١٩ :)
(١If the worker, as a result of his own fault or violation of the employer’s instructions and not 
as a result of a third party’s fault or a force majeure, causes loss, damage or destruction to 
machineries or products owned by the employer while in his custody, the employer may 
deduct from the worker’s wage the amount necessary for repair or restoration to the original 
condition, provided that such deductions do not exceed a five-day wage per month. The 
employer may file a grievance, if necessary, demanding more deductions if the worker has 
other properties from which collections may be made. The worker may file a grievance with 
the Commission for the Settlement of Labor Disputes regarding the allegations leveled at him 
or the employer’s estimation of the damages. If the Commission rules that the employer is not 
entitled to claim such deductions or if it awards the employer a lower amount, the employer 
shall return to the worker the amounts unjustifiably deducted, within seven days from the date 
of the award. 
(٢Either party shall file its grievance within fifteen work days; otherwise, it shall forfeit his 
right thereto. For the employer, the date of filing the grievance shall be from the date the 
occurrence is discovered, and for the worker from the date of his notification of the same by 
the employer. 
Article (٢٩ :)
No amount shall be deducted from the worker’s wages against private rights without his 
written consent, except in the following cases: 
Page 38 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201(١Repayment of loans extended by the employer, provided that such deductions do not 
exceed ٠١of his wage. 
(٢Social insurance or any other contributions due on the workers as provided for by law. 
(٣Worker’s contributions to thrift funds or loans due to such funds. 
(٤Installments of any scheme undertaken by the employer involving home ownership 
programs or any other privilege. 
(٥Fines imposed on the worker on account of violations committed, as well as deductions 
made for damages caused. 
(٦Any debt collected in implementation of a judicial judgment, provided that the monthly 
deduction shall not exceed one quarter of the worker‘s wage, unless the judgment provides 
otherwise. 
First to be collected is alimony, followed by food, clothing and accommodation debts, before 
other debts. 
Article (٣٩ :)
In all cases, deductions made may not exceed half the worker’s due wage, unless the 
Commission for the Settlement of Labor Disputes determines that further deductions can be 
made or that the worker is in need of more than half his wage. In the latter case, the worker 
may not be given more than three quarters of his wage. 
Article (٤٩ :)
Page 39 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201(١If any amount is deducted from the worker’s wages for reasons other than those specified 
in this Law without his written consent, or if the employer delays, without a valid justification, 
payment of the worker’s wages beyond the due date set forth in the Law, the worker, his 
representative or the head of the competent Labor Office may submit a request to the 
Commission for the Settlement of Labor Disputes to order the employer to return to the 
worker any wrongfully-deducted amounts or to pay him his outstanding wages. 
(٢The said Commission may, if it establishes that the employer has unjustifiably deducted the 
said amounts or delayed the payment of the wages, impose on the employer a fine not 
exceeding twice the amount deducted from the worker’s wage or twice the outstanding wages. 
Article (٥٩ :)
(١If the work contract or the work organization regulation does not provide for the wage 
binding on the employer, the wage estimated for the same type of work in the firm, if any, 
shall be adopted; otherwise, the wage shall be estimated in accordance with the profession’s 
norms at the place where the work is performed. In the absence of such norms, the 
Commission for Settlement of Labor Disputes shall estimate the wage in accordance with the 
dictates of justice. 
(٢The same shall also apply in determining the type and scope of the service that the worker 
is required to render. 
Article (٦٩ :)
(١If the worker’s wage is determined on the basis of piecework or productivity, the average 
wage which the worker receives for his actual workdays during the last year of his service shall 
Page 40 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201be used as the basis for calculating any entitlements determined for the worker under this 
Law. 
(٢If the entire wage is the amounts received as commissions, a percentage of sales or the 
like which are by nature subject to increases or decreases, the daily average wage shall be 
calculated on the basis of the amounts the worker receives for the actual work days, divided 
by them. 
Article (٧٩ :)
If a worker is detained or taken into custody by the competent authorities in cases related 
to work or occasioned by it, the employer shall continue to pay the worker ٠٥of the wage 
until the case is decided, provided that the period of detention or custody shall not exceed one 
hundred eighty days. If said period exceeds that, the employer shall not be required to pay 
any portion of the wage for the excess period. If the worker is acquitted or the investigation is 
closed for lack of evidence or invalidity thereof, the employer shall return to the worker the 
amount previously deducted from his wage. However, if he is convicted, none of the payments 
made shall be recovered unless the judgment provides otherwise. 
Chapter Two
Working Hours
Article (٨٩ :)
A worker may not actually work for more than eight hours a day if the employer uses the 
daily work criterion, or more than forty-eight hours a week if he uses the weekly criterion. 
During the month of Ramadan, the actual working hours for Muslims shall be reduced to a 
maximum of six hours a day or thirty-six hours a week. 
Page 41 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201Article (٩٩ :)
The number of working hours provided for in Article (٨٩of this Law may be raised to nine 
hours a day for certain categories of workers or in certain industries and jobs where the 
worker does not work continuously. It may likewise be reduced to seven hours a day for 
certain categories of workers or in certain hazardous or harmful industries or jobs. Categories 
of workers, industries and jobs referred to shall be determined pursuant to a decision by the 
Minister. 
Article (٠٠١ :)
In firms where work is done in shifts, an employer may, with the Ministry’s approval, 
increase the number of working hours to more than eight hours a day or forty eight hours a 
week, provided that the average working hours in three weeks time shall not be more or less 
than eight hours a day or forty eight hours a week. 
Chapter Three
Rest Periods and Weekly Rest Days
First: Rest Periods
Page 42 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201Article (١٠١ :)
Working hours and rest periods during the day shall be scheduled so that no worker shall 
work for more than five consecutive hours without a break of no less than thirty minutes each 
time during the total working hours for rest, prayer and meals, provided that a worker shall 
not remain at the workplace for more than eleven hours a day. 
Article (٢٠١ :)
The periods designated for rest, prayers and meals shall not be included in the actual 
working hours. During such periods, the worker shall not be under the employer’s authority. 
The employer shall not require the worker to remain at the workplace during such breaks. 
Article (٣٠١ :)
The Minister may specify, pursuant to a decision by him, the cases and jobs where work 
shall, for technical reasons or operational conditions, continue without breaks. In such cases 
and jobs, the employer shall allow prayer, meal and rest periods to be scheduled during 
working hours by the management of the firm. 
Second: Weekly Rest Days
Article (٤٠١ :)
(١Friday shall be the weekly rest day for all workers. 
Page 43 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201After proper notification of the competent labor office, the employer may replace this day for 
some of his workers by any other day of the week. The employer shall allow the workers to 
perform their religious obligations. The weekly rest day may not be compensated by cash. 
(٢The weekly rest day shall be at full pay and shall not be less than twenty-four consecutive 
hours. 
Article (٥٠١ :)
As an exception to the provisions of Article (٤٠١of this Law, in remote areas and in jobs 
where the nature of work and operational conditions require continuous work, weekly rest 
periods accruing to the worker may be consolidated for up to eight weeks if the employer and 
the workers agree to that effect, subject to the Ministry’s approval. In calculating the 
consolidated weekly rest periods, it shall be taken into consideration that said periods begin at 
the hour the workers arrive at the nearest city with transportation services and end at the hour 
the workers return to it. 
Article (٦٠١ :)
An employer may not comply with the provisions of Articles (٨٩( ,)١٠١and Paragraph (١ )
of Article (٤٠١of this Law, in the following cases: 
(١Annual inventory activities, preparation of the budget, liquidation, closing of accounts and 
preparations for discount and seasonal sales, provided that the number of days during which 
the workers work shall not exceed thirty days a year. 
(٢If the work is intended to prevent a hazardous accident, remedy its impact or avoid an 
imminent loss of perishable materials. 
Page 44 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201(٣If the work is intended to meet unusual work pressure. 
(٤Eids, other seasons, occasions and seasonal activities specified pursuant to a decision by 
the Minister. 
In all of the above cases, the actual working hours shall not exceed ten hours a day or sixty 
hours a week. The maximum overtime hours allowed per year shall be determined by a 
decision of the Minister. 
Article (٧٠١ :)
(١The employer shall pay the worker for overtime working hours an additional amount equal 
to the hourly wage plus ٠٥of his basic wage. 
(٢If the firm is operated on the basis of weekly working hours, the hours in excess of the 
hours taken as the criterion shall be deemed overtime hours. 
(٣All working hours performed during holidays and Eids shall be deemed overtime hours. 
Article (٨٠١ :)
The provisions of Articles (٨٩and (١٠١of this Law shall not apply to the following cases: 
(١Persons occupying high positions of authority in management and policy, if such positions 
grant the persons occupying them authority over workers. 
(٢Preparatory or supplemental works which must be completed before or after 
commencement of work. 
Page 45 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201(٣Work that is intermittent by necessity. 
(٤Guards and janitors, excluding civil security guards. 
The Regulations shall specify the jobs listed under paragraphs (٢( ,)٣and (٤of this Article 
and their maximum working hours. 
Chapter Four
Leaves
Article (٩٠١ :)
(١A worker shall be entitled to a prepaid annual leave of not less than twenty one days, to be 
increased to a period of not less than thirty days if the worker spends five consecutive years in 
the service of the employer. 
(٢A worker shall enjoy his leave in the year it is due. He may not forgo it or receive cash in 
lieu during his period of service. The employer may set the dates of such leave according to 
work requirements or may grant them in rotation to ensure smooth progress of work. The 
employer shall notify the worker of the date of his leave in sufficient time of not less than 
thirty days. 
Article (٠١١ :)
Page 46 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201(١A worker may, with the employer’s approval, postpone his annual leave or days thereof to 
the following year. 
(٢An employer may postpone, for a period of not more than ninety days, the worker’s leave 
after the end of the year it is due if required by work conditions. If work conditions require 
extension of the postponement, the worker’s consent must be obtained in writing. Such 
postponement shall not, however, exceed the end of the year following the year the leave is 
due. 
Article (١١١ :)
A worker shall be entitled to a wage for the accrued days of the leave if he leaves the 
work without using such leave. This applies to the period of work for which he has not used his 
leave. He is also entitled to a leave pay for the parts of the year in proportion to the part he 
spent at work. 
Article (٢١١ :)
Each worker shall be entitled to full-pay leave on Eids and occasions specified in the 
Regulations. 
Article (٣١١ :)
A worker shall be entitled to one day of paid leave in the case of childbirth and three days 
for marriage or in the case of the death of a spouse or one of his ascendants and descendants. 
Page 47 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201The employer may request supporting documents for cases referred to. 
Article (٤١١ :)
A worker shall be entitled to a paid leave of not less than ten days and not more than 
fifteen days, including Eid Al-Adha holiday, to perform Hajj only once during his service if he 
has not performed it before. To be eligible for this leave, the worker must have spent at least 
two consecutive years of service with the employer. The employer may determine the number 
of workers who shall be given this leave annually in accordance with work requirements. 
Article (٥١١ :)
A worker enrolled in an educational institution shall have the right to a fully paid leave to 
sit for an examination of an unrepeated year. Days of leave shall be based on the actual 
number of the examination days. However, for the examinations of a repeated year, the 
worker shall be entitled to unpaid leave to sit for the examinations. The employer may require 
the worker to submit documents in support of the leave application as well as proof of having 
taken the examination. The worker shall apply for the leave at least fifteen days ahead of the 
due date. Without prejudice to disciplinary action, the worker shall be denied the wage if it is 
proven that he had not taken the examination. 
Article (٦١١ :)
A worker, subject to the employer’s approval, may obtain leave without pay for a duration 
to be agreed upon by the two parties. The work contract shall be deemed suspended for the 
duration of the leave in excess of twenty days, unless both parties agree otherwise. 
Page 48 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201Article (٧١١ :)
A worker whose illness has been proven shall be eligible for a paid sick leave for the first 
thirty days, three quarters of the wage for the next sixty days and without pay for the 
following thirty days, during a single year, whether such leaves are continuous or intermittent. 
A single year shall mean the year which begins from the date of the first sick leave. 
Article (٨١١ :)
A worker may not work for another employer, while enjoying any of his leaves provided 
for in this Chapter. If the employer proves that the worker has violated this provision, he may 
deprive him of his wages for the duration of the leave or recover any wages previously paid to 
him. 
PART VII
PART-TIME WORK
Article (٩١١ :)
Page 49 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201Full-time workers who are affected by a collective temporary reduction in their normal 
working hours for economic, technical or structural reasons shall not be considered part-time 
workers. 
Article (٠٢١ :)
The Minister shall issue the necessary rules and controls for organizing part-time work, 
indicating therein the obligations of the part-time workers and employers. To the exclusion of 
the protection extended to the similar full-time workers in terms of occupational health and 
safety and work injuries, the provisions of this Law shall apply only to the extent determined 
by the Minister. 
PART VIII 
PROTECTION AGAINST OCCUPATIONAL HAZARDS, 
MAJOR INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS AND WORK INJURIES, 
AND HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
Chapter One
Protection Against Occupational Hazards
Article (١٢١ :)
An employer shall maintain the firm in a clean and hygienic condition. He shall provide 
lighting, supply potable and washing water and comply with other rules, measures and 
Page 50 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201standards of occupational protection, health and safety in accordance with what is specified in 
the Minister’s decision. 
Article (٢٢١ :)
An employer shall take the necessary precautions to protect the workers against hazards, 
occupational diseases, the machinery in use, and shall ensure work safety and protection. He 
shall post in a prominent place in the firm the instructions related to work and workers safety 
in Arabic and, when necessary, in any other language that the workers understand. The 
employer may not charge the workers or deduct from their wages any amounts for the 
provision of such protection. 
Article (٣٢١ :)
An employer shall inform the worker, prior to engaging in the work, of the hazards of his 
job and shall require him to use the prescribed protective equipment. The employer shall 
supply the workers with the appropriate personal gear and train them on their use. 
Article (٤٢١ :)
A worker shall use and preserve the personal protective equipment designated for each 
process and shall carry out the instructions established to protect his health against injuries 
and diseases. He shall refrain from any action or omission that may lead to failure to 
implement the instructions, misuse or impair the devices provided to protect the workplace as 
well as the health and safety of fellow workers. 
Page 51 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201Article (٥٢١ :)
An employer shall take necessary precautions for protection against fire and provide the 
technical means to combat it, including safety exits which shall be maintained in working 
condition at all times. He shall post in a prominent location in the workplace detailed 
instructions for fire prevention devices. 
Article (٦٢١ :)
An employer shall be responsible for emergencies and accidents which may affect persons, 
other than his workers, who enter the workplaces by virtue of their official duties or with the 
approval of the employer or his agents, if such emergencies and accidents are due to 
negligence in taking the technical precautions required by the nature of his work, and he shall 
compensate them for damage and harm they may sustain in accordance with the general laws. 
Chapter Two
Protection Against Major Industrial Accidents
Article (٧٢١ :)
The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to high risk firms. 
Page 52 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201Article (٨٢١ :)
١The term “high risk firm” shall mean the firm which produces, prepares, disposes of, 
handles, uses or stores, on a permanent or temporary basis, one or more hazardous 
substances, or categories of these substances in quantities that exceed allowable limits the 
exceeding of which results in listing the firm among the high risk firms. 
٢The term “hazardous substance” shall mean any material or a mixture of substances that 
constitutes a hazard on account of its chemical, physical or toxic properties either alone or in 
combination with other substances. 
٣The term “major accident” shall mean any sudden occurrence such as a major leak, fire or 
explosion in the course of an activity within the high risk firm and which involves one or more 
hazardous substances posing a great immediate or potential danger to the workers, the public 
or the environment. 
Article (٩٢١ :)
The Ministry shall establish controls to identify the high risk firms according to the 
hazardous materials list, their categories or both. 
Article (٠٣١ :)
The employers shall coordinate with the Ministry to determine the status of their firms on 
the basis of the controls referred to in Article (٩٢١of this Law. 
Page 53 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201Article (١٣١ :)
The Minister shall issue the regulations and decisions embodying the necessary 
arrangements at firm level for protection against major hazards, related duties of the 
employers, arrangements for protecting the public and the environment outside the site of 
each high risk firm, the worker’s rights and duties, and other measures necessary to prevent 
major accidents, minimize their the risks of their occurrence and mitigate their impacts. 
Chapter Three
Work Injuries
Article (٢٣١ :)
The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to the firms subject to the Occupational 
Hazards Branch of the Social Insurance Law. 
Article (٣٣١ :)
If a worker sustains a work injury or an occupational disease, the employer shall be 
required to treat him and assume directly or indirectly all necessary expenses, including 
hospitalization, medical examinations and tests, radiology, prosthetic devices and 
transportation expenses to treatment centers. 
Article (٤٣١ :)
Page 54 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201An injury shall be deemed a work injury in accordance with the provisions of the Social 
Insurance Law. Occupational diseases shall also be considered work injuries and the date of 
the first medical diagnosis of the disease shall be treated tantamount to the date of injury. 
Article (٥٣١ :)
Any relapse or complication arising from an injury shall be deemed an injury and shall be 
treated as such in terms of aid and treatment. 
Article (٦٣١ :)
Occupational diseases shall be determined in accordance with the Occupational Diseases 
Schedule provided for in the Social Insurance Law. Degree of total or partial disability shall be 
determined according to the Disability Percentage Guide provided for in the said Law. 
Article (٧٣١ :)
In the case of temporary disability arising from work injury, the injured party shall be 
entitled to financial aid equal to his full wage for thirty days, then ٥٧of the wage for the 
entire duration of his treatment. If one year elapses or it is medically determined that the 
injured party’s chances of recovery are improbable or that he is not physically fit to work, his 
injury shall be deemed total disability. The contract shall be terminated and the worker shall 
be compensated for the injury. The employer may not recover the payments made to the 
injured worker during that year. 
Page 55 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201Article (٨٣١ :)
If an injury results in a permanent total disability or the death of the injured person, the 
injured person or his eligible beneficiaries shall be entitled to a compensation equal to his 
wages for three years, with a minimum of fifty four thousand riyals. 
If the injury results in a permanent partial disability, the injured person shall be entitled to a 
compensation equal to the percentage of the estimated disability in accordance with the 
approved disability percentage guide schedule multiplied by the amount of compensation for 
the permanent total disability. 
Article (٩٣١ :)
An employer shall not be required to comply with the provisions of Articles (٣٣١( ,)٧٣١and 
(٨٣١of this Law if any of the following is established: 
(١If a worker deliberately injures himself. 
(٢If an injury is caused by intentional misconduct on the part of the worker. 
(٣If a worker refuses to be examined by a physician or refuses to accept treatment by the 
physician designated by the employer without a valid reason. 
Article (٠٤١ :)
Liability of previous employers of a worker suffering from an occupational disease shall be 
determined in light of the medical report of the attending physician. Previous employers shall 
be required to pay the compensation provided for in Article (٨٣١of this Law, each in 
Page 56 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201proportion to the period such worker has spent in his service, provided that the industries or 
occupations they engage in cause the disease the worker suffers from. 
Article (١٤١ :)
The procedures for reporting work injuries shall be determined pursuant to a decision by 
the Minister. 
Chapter Four
Medical and Social Services
Article (٢٤١ :)
An employer shall make available one or more medical aid cabinets, supplied with drugs 
and other necessities required for first aid. 
The Regulations shall specify the contents of such cabinets of first aid means, numbers of such 
means and quantities of drugs and shall also regulate the method of keeping them and the 
conditions and requirements to be satisfied by first aid providers. 
Article (٣٤١ :)
An employer shall assign one or more physicians to provide, at least once a year, a 
comprehensive medical examination for his workers who are exposed to any of the 
Page 57 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201occupational diseases listed in the Schedules of Occupational Diseases provided for in the 
Social Insurance Law. The findings of the examination shall be kept in the employer’s records 
as well as in the workers’ files. 
Article (٤٤١ :)
An employer shall provide his workers with preventive and therapeutic health care in 
accordance with the standards set forth by the Minister, taking into consideration whatever is 
provided for by the Cooperative Health Insurance Law. 
Article (٥٤١ :)
An employer may, subject to the Minister’s approval, set up a saving and thrift fund 
provided that the workers’ contribution is optional. The provisions regulating the operations of 
such funds shall be made public. 
Article (٦٤١ :)
An employer shall provide at his own expense all or some of the following, as may be 
determined by the Minister, to those who work in remote locations: 
(١Stores for selling food, clothing and other necessities at moderate prices in places where 
such stores are not available. 
(٢Suitable recreational and educational services and sports facilities annexed to the 
workplaces. 
Page 58 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201(٣Necessary medical arrangements to protect the workers’ health and provide comprehensive 
treatment for their families (family shall mean spouse, children and parents residing with the 
worker). 
(٤Schools for the workers’ children in the absence of sufficient schools in the area. 
(٥Mosques or prayer areas at the workplaces. 
(٦Literacy programs for the workers. 
The Regulations shall specify the remote locations. 
Article (٧٤١ :)
An employer operating in remote locations, mines, quarries and oil exploration centers 
shall provide his workers with accommodation, camps and meals. 
The Minister shall determine, pursuant to a decision by him, the conditions and specifications 
of the accommodations and camps as well as the charges for the accommodations, the number 
of meals, quantities and kinds of food and related conditions, cost of meals to the worker and 
any other requirements necessary for the workers’ health. 
Article (٨٤١ :)
An employer shall provide means for transporting his workers from their place of 
residence or from a certain gathering point to the places of work and bring them back daily, if 
the places of work are not served by regular means of transportation at times compatible with 
the working hours. 
Page 59 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201PART IX 
EMPLOYMENT OF WOMEN
Article (٩٤١ :)
Taking into consideration the provisions of Article (٤of this Law, women shall work in all 
fields suitable to their nature. It is prohibited to employ women in hazardous jobs or 
industries. The Minister pursuant to a decision by him shall determine the professions and jobs 
that are deemed detrimental to health and are likely to expose women to specific risks; in 
which cases, women’s employment shall be prohibited or restricted under certain terms. 
Article (٠٥١ :)
Women may not work during a period of night the duration of which is not less than 
eleven consecutive hours, except in cases determined pursuant to a decision by the Minister. 
Article (١٥١ :)
A female worker shall be entitled to a maternity leave for the four weeks immediately 
preceding the expected date of delivery and the subsequent six weeks. The probable date of 
delivery shall be determined by the physician of the firm or pursuant to a medical report 
Page 60 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201certified by a health authority. A woman may not work during the six weeks immediately 
following delivery. 
Article (٢٥١ :)
During the maternity leave, an employer shall pay the female worker half her wage if she 
has been in his service for one year or more, and a full wage if she has served for three years 
or more as of the date of commencement of such leave. A female worker shall not be paid any 
wages during her regular annual leave if she has enjoyed in the same year a maternity leave 
with full wage. She shall be paid half her wage during the annual leave if she has enjoyed in 
the same year a maternity leave at half wage. 
Article (٣٥١ :)
An employer shall provide medical care for female workers during pregnancy and delivery. 
Article (٤٥١ :)
When a female worker returns to work following a maternity leave, she shall be entitled, 
in addition to the rest periods granted to all workers, to a rest period or periods not exceeding 
in aggregate one hour a day for nursing her infant. Such period or periods shall be calculated 
as part of the actual working hours and shall not entail any reduction in wages. 
Page 61 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201Article (٥٥١ :)
An employer may not terminate the employment of a female worker or give her a warning 
of the same while on maternity leave. 
Article (٦٥١ :)
An employer may not terminate the employment of a female worker during illness 
resulting from pregnancy or delivery, and such illness shall be established by a certified 
medical report, provided that the period of her absence does not exceed one hundred and 
eighty days. The employment of such female worker may not be terminated during the one 
hundred and eighty days preceding the expected date of delivery in the absence of one of the 
legitimate causes provided for in this Law. 
Article (٧٥١ :)
A female worker shall forfeit her entitlements under the provisions of this Part if she works 
for another employer during her authorized leave. In such event, the original employer may 
deprive her of her wage for the duration of the leave or recover any payments made to her. 
Article (٨٥١ :)
In all occupations and places where women are employed, the employer shall provide 
them with seats for resting. 
Page 62 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201Article (٩٥١ :)
(١An employer who employs fifty female workers and more shall provide them with a suitable 
place with adequate number of babysitters to look after the children under the age of six 
years, if the number of children reaches ten and more. 
(٢The Minister may require the employer who employs a hundred women and more in a 
single city to set up a nursery, either on his own or in conjunction with other employers in the 
same city, or alternatively to contract with an existing nursery to care for the children of the 
female workers who are under six years of age during the work periods. In such case, the 
Minister shall set forth the terms and conditions regulating such facility as well as the charges 
imposed on the female workers benefiting from service. 
Article (٠٦١ :)
A female worker whose husband passes away shall be entitled to a fully paid leave for a 
minimum period of fifteen days as of the date of death. 
PART X
EMPLYMENT OF MINORS
Article (١٦١ :)
Page 63 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201Minors may not be employed in hazardous jobs or harmful industries or in occupations or 
jobs that may endanger their health, safety or morals due to the nature or conditions of the 
same. A Minister’s decision shall specify such jobs, industries and occupations. 
Article (٢٦١ :)
(١Any person under the age of fifteen years may not be employed or allowed to enter places 
of work. The Minister may, pursuant to a decision by him, raise this age limit in certain 
industries or areas or for certain categories of minors. 
(٢As an exception to Paragraph (١of this Article, the Minister may allow the employment or 
work of persons between ٣١and ٥١years of age in light works, subject to the following 
conditions: 
(٢.١Such jobs shall not be potentially harmful to their health or growth. 
(٢.٢Such jobs shall not hinder their school attendance, participation in orientation or 
vocational training programs, or impair their ability to benefit from their schooling. 
Article (٣٦١ :)
Minors may not work during a period of night the duration of which is not less than twelve 
consecutive hours, except in cases determined pursuant to a decision by the Minister. 
Article (٤٦١ :)
Page 64 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201Minors may not be made to perform actual work for more than six hours a day for all 
months except for the month of Ramadhan when the actual working hours shall not exceed 
four hours. Working hours shall be organized so that a minor may not work for more than four 
consecutive hours without one or more periods, each not less than half an hour, for rest, food 
and prayers, provided that the minor does not remain at the workplace for more than seven 
hours. 
Minors may not be made to work during the weekly rest days, Eids, official holidays or annual 
vacations, nor shall they be subject to the exceptions provided for in Article (٦٠١of this Law. 
Article (٥٦١ :)
Prior to employing a minor, the employer shall obtain from him the following documents: 
(١The national identification card or an official birth certificate. 
(٢A report of physical fitness for the required job issued by a competent physician and duly 
certified by a health authority. 
(٣The consent of the minor’s guardian. 
Said documents shall be kept in the minor’s personal file. 
Article (٦٦١ :)
An employer shall notify the competent labor office of the employment of each minor 
within the first week of such employment, and shall keep at the workplace a register for 
employed minors, showing the name of the minor, his age, full name of his guardian, his place 
of residence and date of his employment. 
Page 65 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201Article (٧٦١ :)
The provisions provided for in this Part shall not apply to work undertaken by children and 
minors in schools for general, vocational or technical education, and in other training 
institutions, nor shall they apply to work undertaken in firms by persons who are at least 
fourteen years of age if such work is performed in accordance with the conditions set forth by 
the Minister and the work constitutes an essential part of the following: 
(١An educational or training course the primary responsibility for which lies with a school or a 
training institution. 
(٢A training program all or the major part of which is implemented in a firm if approved by 
the competent authority. 
(٣An orientation program aimed at facilitating the selection of the career or type of training. 
PART XI
MARINE WORK CONTRACT
Article (٨٦١ :)
The following words and phrases, wherever mentioned in the provisions of this Part, shall 
have the meanings expressed next to them, unless the context requires otherwise: 
Page 66 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201Vessel: 
A floating craft registered in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, whose tonnage is not less than five 
hundred tons. 
Vessel chandler: 
A natural person, public or private firm for whose account the vessel is being rigged. 
Captain: 
A seaman qualified to command a vessel and assume responsibility for it. 
Seaman: 
A person working aboard a vessel on a marine work contract. 
Marine work contract: 
A work contract for a wage concluded between the vessel's owner or chandler or the 
representative of either of them and a seaman to work on board. Such contract shall be 
subject to the provisions of this Law, unless they are in conflict with the provisions of this Part 
and the decisions issued hereunder. 
Article (٩٦١ :)
All persons working on a vessel shall be subject to the authority and orders of its captain. 
Page 67 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201Article (٠٧١ :)
All work contracts of seamen working on a vessel shall be entered in the vessel’s records 
or appended thereto. Such contracts shall be drafted in a clear language, and shall indicate 
whether they are made for a specified period or for a single voyage. If the contract is made for 
a specified period, this period shall be clearly specified. If it is made for a single voyage, it 
shall specify the city or harbor where the voyage ends, and at what stage of unloading or 
loading the vessel at this harbor the contract terminates. 
Article (١٧١ :)
The marine work contract shall provide for date and place of its conclusion, name of the 
chandler, name of the seaman, his surname, age, nationality and homeland, type of assigned 
work, method of performance, certification for work in sea navigation, the personal marine 
card, wage and duration of the contract. If the contract is for a single voyage, it shall specify 
the city or harbor where the voyage ends and at what stage during the unloading or loading of 
the vessel at the harbor the work ends, and other details of the contract. 
Such contract shall be made out in triplicates, one copy for the vessel’s chandler, and one for 
the captain, to be kept aboard the vessel and a copy for the seaman. 
Article (٢٧١ :)
The work terms and rules aboard the vessel shall be posted in the crew quarters. These 
terms and rules shall include the following: 
Page 68 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201(١Seamen’s obligations and duties, organization rules for work aboard the vessel, service 
timetables and daily working hours. 
(٢Obligations of the vessel’s chandler towards seamen in respect of fixed wages, rewards, 
and other types of wage. 
(٣Method of suspending payment of wages and deductions therefrom and method of advance 
payments. 
(٤Place and time of settlement of wages as well as final calculation thereof. 
(٥Rules and ways for provision of food and accommodation aboard the vessel. 
(٦Treatment of seamen’s illnesses and injuries. 
(٧Conduct of seamen and conditions for their repatriation. 
(٨Seamen’s paid annual leaves. 
(٩End-of-service award and other indemnities payable upon termination or expiration of the 
work contract. 
Article (٣٧١ :)
A seaman shall satisfy the following: 
(١He shall have completed eighteen years of age. 
(٢He shall hold a certificate allowing him to work in marine service. 
(٣He shall be physically fit. 
Page 69 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201Article (٤٧١ :)
All the seaman’s entitlements shall be paid in the official currency. They may be paid in 
foreign currency if they become due while the vessel is outside the territorial waters, subject 
to the seaman's approval. 
The seaman may ask the employer to pay his due monetary wage to the person designated by 
him. 
Article (٥٧١ :)
If the voyage is cut short for any reason, voluntarily or forcibly, this shall not entail 
reduction of the wage of the seaman employed on a marine work contract for a single voyage. 
Article (٦٧١ :)
If the wage is set as a share of the profits or the proceeds of the vessel's charter, the 
seaman shall not be entitled to compensation if the voyage is cancelled nor to a wage increase 
if the voyage is delayed or extended. If the delay or extension is due to the action of the 
shippers, the seaman shall be entitled to compensation from the chandler. 
Article (٧٧١ :)
A seaman shall be eligible for pay, through the day of occurrence, if the ship is captured, 
sinks or becomes unseaworthy. 
Page 70 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201Article (٨٧١ :)
Seamen shall be provided with food and accommodation at the expense of the vessel 
chandler. This shall be regulated by a decision to be issued by the Minister. 
Article (٩٧١ :)
Working hours aboard the vessel while on the high seas shall not exceed fourteen hours in 
a twenty four hour period and not more than seventy two hours in a seven-day period. 
Article (٠٨١ :)
A seaman who contributes to aiding or rescuing another vessel is eligible to a share of the 
reward that the vessel on which he worked is entitled to, regardless of the type of wage of the 
work performed. 
Article (١٨١ :)
If a seaman dies during the voyage, his heirs shall be eligible to receive his wages through 
the date of his death, if the wage is on a monthly basis. If the wage is on a voyage basis, the 
heirs shall be entitled to the full voyage wage, and if the wage is a share of profits, it shall be 
fully payable. The dues of the deceased or missing seaman, or who is unable to collect his 
wage shall be deposited with the labor office at the port of destination in the Kingdom. 
Page 71 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201Article (٢٨١ :)
An employer may terminate the contract without prior notice and without compensation in 
the following cases: 
(١If the vessel sinks, is confiscated, goes missing or becomes unseaworthy. 
(٢If the voyage is cancelled at the outset, for reasons beyond the chandler’s control and the 
wage is on a single voyage basis, unless the contract provides otherwise. 
Article (٣٨١ :)
If the contract expires or is revoked, the employer shall be obligated to: 
(١return the seaman to the port of departure at the commencement of the contract. 
(٢provide him with food and accommodation until he reaches that port. 
Article (٤٨١ :)
A chandler shall return the seaman to his country in the following cases: 
(١If the chandler cancels the voyage after the vessel sails off. 
(٢If the voyage is cancelled after the vessel sails off on account of prohibition of trading with 
Page 72 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201the destination. 
(٣If the seaman is removed from the vessel due to illness, injury or disability. 
(٤If the vessel is sold in a foreign country. 
(٥If the seaman is dismissed from service during the voyage without a legitimate 
justification. 
(٦If the contract concluded with the seaman expires at a port other than the one provided for 
in the contract. 
PART XII
WORKING IN MINES AND QUARRIES 
Article (٥٨١ :)
Working in mines and quarries shall mean the following:
(١Operations involving prospection, detection, extraction or manufacture of (solid or liquid) 
mineral substances, including precious stones, in the area for which the license has been 
issued. 
(٢Operations involving extraction, concentration or manufacture of mineral sediments on or 
under the ground surface in the area of the license. 
(٣Construction works, installation of structure and equipment related to the operations 
referred to in Paragraphs (١and (٢of this Article. 
Page 73 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201Article (٦٨١ :)
No person under the age of eighteen or any woman regardless of her age shall be 
employed in a mine or quarry. 
Article (٧٨١ :)
No person shall be allowed to engage in operations subject to the provisions of this Part 
until he undergoes a complete medical examination and proven to be physically fit for the 
required work. Such examination shall be repeated periodically. The worker may not be 
required to bear the costs of necessary medical examinations. The Minister shall set forth 
pursuant to a decision by him the terms, conditions and periods that must be complied with. 
Article (٨٨١ :)
The actual working hours spent by the worker underground shall not exceed seven hours 
a day. No worker shall be kept at the workplace, above or under ground, for more than ten 
hours a day. If the work is conducted underground, such a period shall include the time 
needed for the worker to reach the underground and the time needed to return to the surface. 
Article (٩٨١ :)
Access to the work location and facilities shall be prohibited for people other than the 
workers, persons authorized to inspect the mine or the quarry and persons holding special 
permits from the competent authority. 
Page 74 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201Article (٠٩١ :)
An employer shall keep a record to register and count the workers before their entry into 
the workplace and at the time of their exit therefrom. 
Article (١٩١ :)
An employer or the manager in-charge shall draft a list of orders and instructions related 
to the public safety. 
Article (٢٩١ :)
An employer shall establish a rescue point in the vicinity of the workplace, equipped with 
necessary rescue and first aid equipment. Said point shall be equipped with suitable means of 
communication for immediate access and the employer shall appoint a trained technician to 
supervise the rescue and first aid operations. 
Article (٣٩١ :)
Without prejudice to the provisions of Article (٢٤١of this Law, the employer of each mine 
or quarry with at least fifty workers shall set up a suitable location with a room equipped with 
rescue and first aid equipment, another room for nursing and one or more locker rooms. As for 
Page 75 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201quarries and mines with less than fifty workers located within a twenty-kilometer radius of 
each other, employers may pool their resources to establish a place of rescue and first aid in 
between such quarries and mines, or else establish their own places of rescue and first aid. 
The Minister may determine the rescue and first aid equipment, protection and prevention 
measures in mines and quarries as well as employers’ responsibilities and workers’ rights and 
duties. 
PART XIII
WORK INSPECTION
Article (٤٩١ :)
Work inspection shall be undertaken by competent inspectors to be named pursuant to a 
decision by the Minister. They shall have the powers and authorities provided for in this Law. 
Article (٥٩١ :)
In addition to the general conditions for appointment of employees, a work inspector shall 
satisfy the following requirements when performing his duties: 
(١Total impartiality. 
(٢Absence of any direct or indirect relation with the firms he inspects. 
(٣Passing a conduct examination following completion of a training period of at least ninety 
days. 
Page 76 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201Article (٦٩١ :)
Work inspectors shall have the following powers: 
(١Monitor the proper implementation of the provisions of the Labor Law and its implementing 
regulations and decisions. 
(٢Furnishing employers and workers with technical information and guidelines that enable 
them to follow the best means for implementing the provisions of the Law. 
(٣Reporting to the competent authorities the shortcomings which the existing provisions fail 
to remedy and providing relevant suggestions. 
(٤Recording violations of the provisions of the Labor Law and its implementing decisions. 
Article (٧٩١ :)
Before assuming their official duties, work inspectors shall take an oath before the Minister 
to discharge their duties honestly and sincerely, and not disclose the secrets of any industrial 
invention or any other secrets which may come to their knowledge by reason of their offices, 
even after leaving such offices. A work inspector shall carry an identification card issued by the 
Ministry. 
Article (٨٩١ :)
Page 77 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201Work inspectors shall have the right to: 
(١Access any firm that is subject to the provisions of the Labor Law at any time, day or night, 
without prior notice. 
(٢Perform any examination or investigation required to ascertain proper implementation of 
the Law. They may in particular: 
(a) Question the employer, his representative or the workers in private or in the presence of 
witnesses about any matter relating to the implementation of the provisions of the Law. 
(b) Review all books, records and other documents required to be kept pursuant to the 
provisions of this Law and related decisions, and obtain any copies or extracts therefrom. 
(c) Take sample(s) of the materials used or handled in the industrial and other operations 
subject to inspection and believed to have a harmful effect on the health or safety of workers, 
for the purpose of analyzing such samples in government laboratories to determine the extent 
of such effect, and duly notify the employer or his representative of the same. 
Article (٩٩١ :)
Employers and their agents shall facilitate for the inspectors and officials entrusted with 
work inspection the performance of their duties. They shall provide them with required data 
related to the nature of their work, respond to requests to appear before them and dispatch a 
representative when asked. 
Article (٠٠٢ :)
Page 78 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201A person conducting inspection shall notify the employer or his representative of his visit 
except where he believes that the task for which the inspection is being made requires 
otherwise. 
Article (١٠٢ :)
A work inspector may instruct employers to amend the rules for operating their equipment 
and machinery at deadlines he specifies, to ensure compliance with the provisions pertaining 
to workers’ health and safety. In the event of a hazard threatening the workers’ health and 
safety, the inspector may request the immediate implementation of measures he may deem 
necessary to prevent such hazard. 
Article (٢٠٢ :)
A work inspector shall treat with absolute secrecy complaints he receives regarding any 
shortage in equipment or any violation of the provisions of the Law, and shall not disclose to 
the employer or his representative the existence of such complaints. 
Article (٣٠٢ :)
If, in the course of inspection, the inspector concludes the existence of a violation of the 
provisions of this Law or of any decisions issued hereunder, he shall, provide advice to the 
employer on how to avoid such violation, serve the employer with a verbal notice or a written 
warning to rectify the violation within a certain period or else draft a report recording the 
Page 79 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201violation, depending on the seriousness of the violation and the other circumstances that are 
left to his discretion. 
Article (٤٠٢ :)
Whenever the need arises, physicians, engineers, chemists, and specialists in occupational 
health and safety shall participate in the inspection. If necessary, the director of the labor 
office and inspectors may request the competent executive bodies to extend the required 
assistance. 
Article (٥٠٢ :)
The work inspection chief at the labor office shall prepare a monthly report on the work 
inspection activities, the aspects of inspection, the firms inspected, the number and type of 
violations committed and the actions taken with respect thereto. He shall also prepare an 
annual report on the inspection undertaken within the jurisdiction of the labor office, its 
findings and effects, and include therein his comments and proposals. Copies of both reports 
shall be submitted to the Ministry. 
Article (٦٠٢ :)
The Deputy Minister for Labor Affairs shall prepare, within a period not exceeding one 
hundred eighty days from the end of the year, a comprehensive annual report on work 
inspection in the Kingdom, addressing all matters relating to the Ministry’s monitoring of the 
implementation of the provisions of the Labor Law. In particular, the report shall include the 
following: 
Page 80 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201(١A statement of the provisions regulating inspection. 
(٢A list of the officials in charge of inspection. 
(٣Statistics on firms that are subject to inspection and number of their workers. 
(٤Statistics on inspectors’ visits and inspections. 
(٥Statistics on the violations committed and the penalties imposed. 
(٦Statistics on work injuries. 
(٧Statistics on occupational diseases. 
Article (٧٠٢ :)
The Ministry shall prepare forms for recording violations, inspection records, notices and 
warnings, and shall establish the provisions necessary for the filing and use of such forms and 
for their distribution to labor offices. 
Article (٨٠٢ :)
Training courses shall be organized for work inspectors, and shall in particular include the 
following: 
(١Principles for organizing inspection visits and communication with employers and workers. 
(٢Principles for auditing books, records and computers, as well as principles for organizing 
inspection reports and interrogation of persons. 
Page 81 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201(٣Principles for guiding employers on the requirements of statutory provisions and the 
benefits of their application, and assisting them in such application. 
(٤Fundamental principles of industrial technology and means of protection against work 
injuries and occupational diseases. 
(٥Fundamental principles of production efficiency and its relevance to providing conditions 
conducive to a proper work environment. 
Article (٩٠٢ :)
The Council of Ministers shall issue the Implementing Regulations needed to regulate and 
organize the inspection activities as provided for in this Part. 
PART XIV 
COMMISSIONS FOR SETTLEMENT OF LABOR DISPUTES
Article (٠١٢ :)
Commissions for settlement of labor disputes are: 
(١The Preliminary Commissions for Settlement of Disputes. 
(٢The High Commission for Settlement of Disputes. 
Page 82 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201Article (١١٢ :)
Pursuant to a decision by the Minister and following the approval of the President of the 
Council of Ministers, members of the preliminary commissions shall be named from among 
holders of degrees in Shari’ah or law. 
Article (٢١٢ :)
Based on a decision by the Minister, a preliminary commission comprising one or more 
one-member circuits shall be formed in each labor office specified by the Minister. Each of 
these circuits shall decide the cases referred to it. If the commission comprises more than one 
circuit, the Minister shall name a head from among the members, who shall, in addition to his 
duties, assign the cases to commission members and organize the administrative and clerical 
work. 
Article (٣١٢ :)
If no preliminary commission is formed in a labor office, the Minister shall, when 
necessary, delegate the commission formed at the nearest labor office with the duties and 
jurisdictions of the commission which has not been formed. 
Article (٤١٢ :)
The Preliminary Commission shall have jurisdiction to:
(١Render final decisions on: 
Page 83 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201(١.١Labor disputes, irrespective of their type, the value of which does not exceed ten 
thousand riyals. 
(١.٢Objection to the penalty imposed by the employer upon the worker. 
(١.٣Imposition of the punishments provided for in this Law for a violation of which the 
punishment does not exceed five thousand riyals and violations with a combined punishment 
not exceeding five thousand riyals. 
(٢Render preliminary decisions on: 
(٢.١Labor disputes the value of which exceeds ten thousand riyals. 
(٢.٢Disputes over compensations for work injuries, irrespective of the amount of the 
compensation. 
(٢.٣Disputes over termination of service. 
(٢.٤Imposition of the punishments provided for in this Law for a violation the punishment of 
which exceeds five thousand riyals and violations with a combined punishment exceeding five 
thousand riyals. 
(٢.٥Imposition of punishments on violations punishable by fines and consequential 
punishments. 
Article (٥١٢ :)
The High Commission for Settlement of Disputes shall be comprised of several circuits, 
each comprising not less than three members. The chairman and members of the commission 
who shall be holders of degrees in Shari’ah and law with expertise in labor disputes shall be 
named by a decision of the Council of Ministers, based on a nomination by the Minister. A 
decision by the Minister, based on a recommendation of the Chairman of the Commission, shall 
Page 84 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201specify the number of circuits of the High Commission and their venue jurisdiction. The 
Chairman of the Commission shall select the heads of the circuits, assign the duties of each 
and supervise all administrative functions of the circuits. 
Article (٦١٢ :)
Each of the circuits of the High Commission shall have jurisdiction to decide finally and 
definitively on all appeals brought before it against decisions of the circuits of preliminary 
commissions. 
Article (٧١٢ :)
Decisions may be appealed within thirty days from the date of utterance of the preliminary 
circuit’s decisions made in the presence of the parties and from the date of notification in other 
cases. 
Article (٨١٢ :)
If the decision of the preliminary circuit is not appealed within the period specified in the 
previous Article, the decision shall be deemed final and enforceable. All decisions of the circuits 
of the High Commission shall be deemed enforceable from the date of their issuance. 
Article (٩١٢ :)
Page 85 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201Each of these Commissions shall solely have exclusive right to consider all disputes 
relating to this Law and the disputes arising from work contracts. It may summon any person 
for interrogation or assign one of its members to conduct such interrogation. It may also 
require submission of documents and evidence and take any other measures it may deem fit. 
The Commission shall also have the right of access to any premises of the firm for the purpose 
of conducting the investigation and reviewing all books, records and documents it deems 
necessary. 
Article (٠٢٢ :)
Cases shall be filed through the competent labor office with the preliminary commissions 
in whose locality or under whose jurisdiction the place of work falls. Prior to referring the 
dispute to the Commission, the labor office shall take the necessary measures to settle the 
dispute amicably. The Minister shall issue a decision setting forth the relevant procedures and 
rules. 
Article (١٢٢ :)
Cases arising from the provisions of this Law shall be reviewed promptly.
Article (٢٢٢:)
(١No case shall be accepted by the commissions provided for in this Law involving a claim 
of the rights provided for in this Law or arising from a work contract after twelve months 
following termination of the work relation. 
(٢No case involving a claim of the rights provided for in the previous Labor Law shall be 
accepted after twelve months following the effective date of this Law. 
Page 86 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201(٣No complaint regarding violations of the provisions of this Law or the regulations and 
decisions issued hereunder shall be accepted after twelve months following the date of the 
occurrence of the violation. 
Article (٣٢٢ :)
None of the commissions provided for in this Part shall abstain from rendering its 
decision on the pretext of the absence of applicable provisions in this Law. In such case, the 
commissions shall resort to the principles of Shari’ah, established judicial precedents, norms 
and the principles of justice. 
Article (٤٢٢ :)
The work contract parties may incorporate a clause in the work contract providing for 
settlement of disputes through arbitration or may agree to do so after the dispute arises. In 
all cases, the provisions of the Arbitration Law and its Implementing Regulations in force in 
the Kingdom shall apply. 
Article (٥٢٢ :)
Neither of the disputing parties may bring the dispute, upon which a final decision has 
been rendered by one of the commissions provided for in this Part, before this Commission 
or other judicial bodies. 
Page 87 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201Article (٦٢٢ :)
During the reconciliation or arbitration proceedings or while the case is under review 
before one of the commissions provided for in this Part, the employer may not change the 
terms of employment applicable before the initiation of the proceedings in a way that would 
cause harm to the worker. 
Article (٧٢٢ :)
The Commission may order the losing party to pay the other party all or part of the 
costs incurred by him. 
Article (٨٢٢ :)
The Council of Ministers shall issue the regulations for litigation before the commissions 
for settlement of labor disputes. 
PART XV
PUNISHMENTS
Page 88 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201Article (٩٢٢ :)
The punishments provided for in this Part shall apply in the absence of harsher 
punishments provided for in any other laws. 
Article (٠٣٢ :)
A fine of not less than three thousand riyals and not more than ten thousand riyals shall 
be imposed on any person who violates any of the provisions related to the vocational 
preparation of Saudi workers to replace others, as provided for in this Law and the decisions 
issued hereunder. 
Article (١٣٢ :)
Violators of the provisions of Articles (٦١( ,)٥٢( ,)٣٣( ,)٧٣and (٨٣of this Law shall be 
subject to a fine of not less than two thousand riyals and not more than five thousand riyals. 
The fine shall be multiplied by the number of workers subject of the violation. 
Article (٢٣٢ :)
Violators of the provision of Article (٠٣of this Law shall be subject to a fine of not less 
than ten thousand riyals and not more than thirty thousand riyals. 
Article (٣٣٢ :)
Page 89 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201Violators of the provision of Article (٩٣of this Law shall be subject to a fine of not less 
than five thousand riyals and not more than twenty thousand riyals, and the fine shall be 
multiplied by the number of persons subject of the violation. The worker shall be repatriated 
at the expense of the person who employs him. 
Article (٤٣٢ :)
An employer or any person responsible for violation of the provisions of Chapters Two, 
Three and Four of Part VI of this Law, or any decisions issued hereunder shall be subject to 
a fine of not less than two thousand riyals and not exceeding five thousand riyals for each 
violation. 
Article (٥٣٢ :)
An employer who violates the provision of Article (٠٩of this Law shall be subject to a 
fine of not less than five hundred riyals and not more than three thousand riyals. The fine 
shall be multiplied by the number of the workers subject of the violation. 
Article (٦٣٢ :)
Any person who violates the provisions of Chapters One and Two of Part VIII of this Law 
and the rules issued in accordance with the provision of Article (١٢١of this Law shall be 
subject to a fine of not less than three thousand riyals and not more than ten thousand 
riyals for each violation or closing down the firm for not more than thirty days or 
permanently. The fine and the closing down may be combined along with the elimination of 
the source of the hazard. 
Page 90 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201Article (٧٣٢ :)
Without prejudice to the punishment provided for in other laws applicable to those who 
obstruct an official in the course of his duties, violators of the provisions of Article (٩٩١of 
this Law shall be subject to a fine of not less than five thousand riyals and not more than 
ten thousand riyals. 
Article (٨٣٢ :)
Any employer, project manager or worker who refuses or delays execution of an 
arbitration award or a final decision rendered by any of the labor dispute settlement 
commissions shall be subject to a fine of not less than ten thousand riyals and not more 
than thirty thousand riyals. 
Article (٩٣٢ :)
A violator of any of the provisions of this Law and the regulations and decisions issued 
hereunder shall be subject to a fine of not less than two thousand riyals and not more than 
five thousand riyals, for punishments not provided for herein. 
Article (٠٤٢ :)
Page 91 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201If the violation is repeated within ninety days or the violator fails to correct it within the 
specified period, the fine shall be doubled. 
Article (١٤٢ :)
In all cases, the violator may pay the maximum prescribed fine as provided for in this 
Part without resorting to the Commission for Settlement of Labor Disputes. 
Article (٢٤٢ :)
Proceeds of fines collected on account of violations of the provisions of this Law and the 
regulations and decisions issued hereunder shall eventually be deposited with the Human 
Resources Development Fund. 
PART XVI
CONCLUDING PROVISIONS
Article (٣٤٢ :)
The Minister shall issue, within one hundred eighty days from the effective date of this 
Law, the decisions and regulations necessary for implementing the provisions of this Law. 
The Implementing Regulations shall be published in the Official Gazette. 
Page 92 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201Article (٤٤٢ :)
This Law shall supersede the Labor and Workers Law promulgated by Royal Decree No. 
(M/١٢dated ٦Ramadan ٩٨٣١H and shall repeal all the provisions that are inconsistent with 
it. Regulations and decisions issued prior to the effective date of this Law shall remain in 
effect until they are amended. 
Article (٥٤٢ :)
This Law shall be published in the Official Gazette and shall come into effect one 
hundred eighty days after the date of its publication. 
Page 93 of 93
٦١/١١/٨٣https://www.boe.gov.sa/printsystem.aspx?lang=en&systemid=186&versionid=201