www.fecc.org
Model
Distribution
Contract
EU Competition requirements and law applicable to
Distribution
Rue du Luxembourg 16
1000 Brussels, Belgium
Tel. +32 26 79 02 60
Fax. +32 26 72 73 55Disclaimer
This Model Distribution Contract is a sample document for information purposes only, and must not be
construed as legal advice. This model contract is provided as is, without any express or implied warranty,
including but not limited to warranties of merchantability, satisfactory quality, or fitness for a particular
purpose. Please do not use this model contract without checking with your legal counsel. You are
responsible for your own compliance with all the laws and requirements applicable to your business. This
document does not represent the views of any company or member represented by Fecc.
FECC MODEL DISTRIBUTION CONTRACT Original version of 2014; reviewed and updated under EU antitrust law in autumn 2022Table of Contents
Model Distribution Contract ............................................................................................ 3
Examples of Annexes....................................................................................................... 16
Supplement ...................................................................................................................... 17
A. Distribution Contract - General checklist ............................................................... 17
B. Law applicable to Distribution agreements ............................................................ 21
C. EU Competition Law and Distribution ................................................................... 26
FECC MODEL DISTRIBUTION CONTRACT Original version of 2014; reviewed and updated under EU antitrust law in autumn 20221.1.
1.2.
1.3.
Effective date of the contract – [insert date]
"Products" shall mean those products listed in Schedule 1.
“Products specifications” –relevant specifications for the Products as set out in Schedule
2.
"Territory" shall mean those areas listed in Schedule 3.
“Intellectual property rights" shall mean trademarks and trade names and any other
intellectual and industrial property rights related to the Products at any time during the
term of this contract [Listed in Schedule 4].
“Applicable laws” - means all laws that are applicable to this contract or the activities
detailed under it as the same may be amended and in force from time to time.
"Confidential information" means any information disclosed by one Party to the other
under or in connection with this contract which should reasonably be considered to be
confidential or proprietary given the nature of the information and the circumstances of
the disclosure. Confidential information does not include information that: (a) is or
1.4.
1.5.
1.6.
1.7.
Model Distribution Contract
Between [ full legal entity name, address of registered office, registered with/in and
havingregistration no, duly represented by …(Name of authorized signatory)]
………………………………………………………………………..
……………………………………………………………………….
"the SUPPLIER",
AND
[full legal entity name, address of registered office, registered with/in and having
registrationno, duly represented by …(Name of authorized signatory)]
…………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………….
"the DISTRIBUTOR",
made on [insert] day of [insert month] [insert year]
Hereinafter referred to individually as a ‘Party’ and collectively as the ‘Parties’.
WHEREBY IT IS AGREED as follows,
1. DEFINITIONS
The following terms shall have the meaning given below,
becomes generally known to the public through no fault of or breach of this contract by
the receiving party (b) is rightfully known by the receiving party at the time of disclosure
without an obligation of confidentiality (c) is independently developed by the receiving
3
FECC MODEL DISTRIBUTION CONTRACT Original version of 2014; reviewed and updated under EU antitrust law in 
autumn 20221.8. “Order” –issued by the Distributor to the Supplier for delivery of the Products as under
this contract.
“Schedule” –refers to a Schedule to this contract.
“Force majeure” - an event beyond the reasonable control of the party, including but
without any limitation, an act of God, war, riot, public disorder, economic sanctions, fire,
flood, explosion and epidemic.
“Latent defect” - means a defect which exists at the time of acceptance but cannot be
discovered by a reasonable inspection on receipt of the Products at delivery.
1.9.
1.10.
1.11.
party without use of the disclosing party's confidential information or (d) the receiving
party rightfully obtains from a third party without restriction on use or disclosure.
      
   
  
      
   
  
2.  APPOINTMENT
The  Supplier  has  selected  the  Distributor  on  the  basis  of  the  Distributors  experience,  sales
infrastructure  and  qualifications,  including  the  Distributors  reputation  for  proper  business
conduct and general compliance with applicable laws.
The  Supplier   appoints  the   Distributor  as   it’s  [Exclusive/  Non-exclusive]1  Distributor,
who  accepts  to  purchase,  market,  distribute  and  sell  the  Products  in  the  territory  based
on  the  terms and conditions expressed in this contract.
3.  GENERAL PRINCIPLE OF  GOOD FAITH
Parties  will  carry  out  their  obligations  under  this  contract  in  good  faith  and  in  accordance
with the general principle of fair dealing;  the provisions of this contract and  any statements
made by the  Parties in connection with the contract shall be interpreted in good faith.
4.  DISTRIBUTOR STATUS
a. The  Distributor  shall  not  represent  itself  as  an  agent  of  the  Supplier  and  shall  have  no 
power to bind or obligate  the Supplier  in any  contract or obligation.
b. This  contract does not intend to constitute, create, give effect or otherwise recognize the  
relationship  of  employer  and  employee,  franchisor  and  franchisee,  a  joint  venture,
partnership or formal business entity of any kind. Each  Party shall be at all times and for  
all  purposes  an  independent  contractor  and  neither  Party  shall  have  any  authority  to 
create  any  obligation  of  any  kind,  expressed  or  implied,  on  behalf  of  the  other  Party 
except as and to the extent provided for in this  contract.
4
1  This being a Model contract  -  based on the choice of exclusive or non-exclusive,  clauses  mentioned  below can be
  used, modified  or removed.
FECC  MODEL DISTRIBUTION CONTRACT
Original version of 2014; reviewed and updated under EU antitrust law in autumn 2022 
   
 
                 
   
                
             
                
  
            
  
 
 
 
 
              
 
 
             
              
  
               
              
 
              
 
 
   
 
                 
   
                
             
                
  
            
  
 
 
 
 
              
 
 
             
              
  
               
              
 
              
  
c. The Distributor shall operate in the Distributor’s own name and on its own behalf in the  
Territory  as specified in  this contract. The Distributor shall not, accordingly, be entitled  
to act in the other Party’s name or on the other Party’s behalf  without the latter’s written
authorization beforehand.
d. In  the  case  where  the  Distributor  is  unwilling  or  unable  to  act  as  buyer  and  re-seller  it 
may write to the  Supplier  suggesting a direct sale to the customer. The Distributor shall  
not  be  entitled  to  any  fee  or  other  remuneration  for  prospecting  a  direct  sale  which  the 
Supplier  subsequently  carries  out,  except  as  otherwise  agreed  by  the  Parties  in  writing 
before the sale is completed.
[or]
In  the  case  where  the  Distributor  is  unwilling  or  unable  to  act  as  buyer  and  re-seller  it
may write to the  Supplier  suggesting a direct sale to the customer. The Distributor shall
not  be  entitled  to  remuneration  for  prospecting  a  direct  sale  which  the  Supplier
subsequently carries out  of…..  [Specify].
5.  OBLIGATIONS OF THE DISTRIBUTOR
a. The Distributor shall buy and sell the Suppliers Products as specified in this contract, in  
its own name and for its own account and shall then sell them to third parties domiciling  
within the Territory in its own name and for its own account. The Distributor shall use its  
best  commercial  and  business  efforts  to  promote  the  sales  of  the  Products  within  the 
Territory and in its own name and for its own account.
b. The Distributor shall not actively solicit any sales of the Products outside of the Territory  
specified in this contract. The Distributor shall restrict his efforts to advertise and solicit  
sales  of  the  Products  to  activities  executed  within  the  Territory.  However,  if  the 
Distributor  sells  Products  to  third  parties  residing  outside  of  the  Territory;  this  shall  not 
give rise to any claim for commission payment.
c. The Distributor shall  advertise, promote, distribute and sell the Products in the Territory  
and  to  further  this  employ  and  train  a  sales  organization  adequate  to  properly  (i)  solicit 
the  sale  of  the  Products,  (ii)  respond  to  inquiries  from  the  Territory  concerning  the 
Products, and (iii) efficiently process orders for the Products and visit clients.
d. The Distributor is authorised to sub-contract transport, logistics and warehousing services  
to  third  parties  in  the  context  of  the  performance  of  its  obligations  under  this  contract,
5
FECC  MODEL DISTRIBUTION CONTRACT
Original version of 2014; reviewed and updated under EU antitrust law in autumn 2022provided that the services provided by such third parties comply with the requirements set
out in this contract.
e. The Distributor [ INSERT - undertakes not to OR is free to ] represent, distribute or sell
within the Territory specified in this contract any product which might be in direct
competition with the Suppliers Products, at any time after the coming into force of this
contract and throughout its duration.
f. The Distributor [ INSERT is OR is not ] the sole dealer for the Products. The Supplier
undertakes [INSERT not to OR is free ] to appoint other distributors as agents or dealers
for the distribution of the Products within the Territory.
g. The Distributor shall convey any complaints received about defects in the Products to the
Supplier.
h. The Distributor shall keep all stocks of the Products which it holds in appropriate
conditions or special conditions if specified in this contract.
i. The Distributor shall describe itself in all dealings with the Products and in all associated
advertising and promotional material as [ INSERT SUPPLIER NAME ] authorized
distributor. Marketing and image building costs and policies will be agreed upon between
the Parties, paid for in full or/and partly (…%) by the [ INSERT
DISTRIBUTOR/SUPPLIER accordingly]
j. The Distributor shall keep the Supplier regularly informed about relevant market
information concerning the Products in the Territory and shall furnish the Supplier with
an annual report [ INSERT on…day/month…of the year ] reflecting planned development
of sales and other relevant data as may be requested by the Supplier.
k. The Distributor shall obtain and maintain all required permits, licenses, and Government
authorizations, and shall comply with relevant Product certification or qualification
requirements necessary to sell the Products in the specified Territory and with other laws,
rules, and regulations of the appropriate governmental authorities applicable to the
performance of its obligations under this contract. Costs incurred on Product related
requirements/registrations shall be borne by the Supplier.
l. The Distributor shall abide by recognized industry standards and guidance as to general
safety, storage, handling, transportation and sale of the Products in the specified Territory,
including without limitation those expressed and developed by the European Association
of Chemical Distributors (Fecc).
6
FECC MODEL DISTRIBUTION CONTRACT Original version of 2014; reviewed and updated under EU antitrust law in 
autumn 2022 
             
            
  
            
 
            
              
 
 
              
              
            
  
 
             
            
             
 
 
            
 
 
             
            
  
            
 
            
              
 
 
              
              
            
  
 
             
            
             
 
 
            
  
6.  OBLIGATIONS OF THE SUPPLIER
The Supplier undertakes:
a. To  supply  the  contractual  Product/s  ordered  in  accordance  to  the  terms  of  this  contract.
The  Supplier  may  not  reject  orders  received  from  the  Distributor  without  giving  the
reasons for  the  refusal.
b. The  Supplier  undertakes  to  keep  the  Distributor  competitive  especially  in  terms  of 
quantity and prices.
c. The Supplier shall reserve the right to alter or discontinue single Products. The Products  
shall  not  be  changed  considerably  hereby.  However,  the  Supplier  shall  render  the 
Distributor  at  least  [insert]  months  advance  notice  if  the  Supplier  intends  to  take  a 
Product out of its product portfolio  or to alter it.
d. Where the Supplier replaces or updates any of the Products, or expands its product range  
with a product falling within the expertise and competence of the Distributor (including,
but  not  limited  to  varieties  of  an  existing  Product),  such  replacement,  updates  or  new 
products  shall  be  considered  as  a  Product  falling  within  the  scope  of  this  contract  and
[INSERT Schedule no] shall be automatically amended accordingly.
e. The Supplier will provide the Distributor, free of charge, with all information, documents,
samples  and  advertising  material  necessary  for  sales  of  the  contractual  Products.  The 
Supplier will pay transport costs and clearance charges of such material.  On termination 
of this contract, the documents, advertising material and samples must be returned by the  
Distributor  to  the  Supplier.  This  provision  may  not  affect  the  intellectual  or  industrial 
property rights of the Supplier.
f. The  Supplier  undertakes  to  forward  to  the  Distributor  all  orders,  communications  and 
inquiries  he  receives  directly  from  the  contractual  territory  [INSERT  this  clause  only  if 
applicable].
g. The Supplier shall be entitled to grant distribution or sales rights to other representatives  
or  distributors in the Territory and to make direct deliveries to customers in the Territory
[INSERT this clause only if applicable].
h. The  Supplier  will  provide  the  Distributor  with  all  information  reasonably  necessary  to 
carry out his obligations as a Distributor.
7
FECC  MODEL DISTRIBUTION CONTRACT
Original version of 2014; reviewed and updated under EU antitrust law in autumn 2022      
 
  
             
             
              
            
               
           
              
 
 
              
               
            
             
             
        
  
      
 
  
             
             
              
            
               
           
              
 
 
              
               
            
             
             
        
  
i. The Supplier  shall  organize  and provide  adequate technical training/technical support  of 
Distributor’s staff where deemed necessary  and as soon as possible.
j. The Supplier shall  provide general product training sessions from time to time in addition 
to aforesaid technical training sessions.
k. The  Parties  may  agree  to  organize  joint  visits  to  Distributor’s  customers  for  supplying 
relevant  information  related  to  the  Products  and/or  their  use,  as  well  as  providing 
technical service if viable and if so desired by the customer.
l. The  Supplier  shall  ensure  that  the  Products  are  manufactured  and  supplied  as  per  the 
Product  Specifications  in  this  contract,  applicable  laws  and  shall  continue  to  meet  the
Product Specifications during the entire shelf life.
m. The  Supplier  shall  ensure  that  the  Products  comply  in  form  and  content  with  the  legal 
provisions  and  requirements  of  the  country  or  countries  comprising  the  Territory 
expressed in this contract.
n. The  Product  shall  be  delivered  to  the  Distributor  in  an  undamaged  condition  and  shall 
remain the responsibility of the Supplier until delivery is completed.
o. The Supplier shall ensure that the Distributor receives all documentation and certificates  
of conformity or analysis required and that these are  as required by the Distributor.
p. The  Supplier  shall  ensure  that  the  Products  specified  in  this  contract  are  of  satisfactory 
and merchantable quality and are free from defects, liens and encumbrances.
7. CONDITIONS PERTAINING TO ORDER, DELIVERY AND ACCEPTANCE
a. The Distributor shall purchase the Product/s by written Orders and request a delivery date.
An  Order  shall  be  binding  only  when  the  Supplier  accepts  it  in  writing.  Acceptance  of 
order/s  shall  be  confirmed  in  writing  within  [INSERT  days]  Business  Days  following 
receipt of the Order.
b. Unless  agreed  otherwise  in  writing,  the  delivery  conditions  of  the  Products  shall  take 
place in accordance with [INSERT Incoterm and location].
c. Either  Party  may,  on  promptly  informing  the  other  Party  in  writing,  suspend  its 
contractual  obligations  should  they  prove  objectively  impossible  or  unreasonably
8
FECC  MODEL DISTRIBUTION CONTRACT
Original version of 2014; reviewed and updated under EU antitrust law in autumn 2022           
             
           
 
            
          
 
                
             
              
     
     
           
  
  
          
            
         
      
            
     
              
 
 
     
    
  
 
 
  
           
             
           
 
            
         
 
               
            
             
      
    
           
   
   
         
           
         
      
           
     
              
 
 
    
   
  
  
burdensome  to  perform  due  to  some  unforeseeable  hindrance  beyond  its  control  (e.g.
Force Majeure), and shall not thereby incur any liability for default.
d. Where  the  Distributor  discovers  any  defects  in  the  Product/s  which  are  apparent  on 
reasonable  visual  inspection  the  Distributor  shall  notify  the  Supplier  in  writing  within
[INSERT days]  Business Days of receipt thereof and shall provide reasons for rejection.
e. The  Distributor  shall  notify  the  Supplier  of  any  Latent  Defect/s  in  writing  within
[INSERT  days]  Business  Days  following  its  discovery  and  shall  provide
details  accordingly.
f. In  the  case  of  rejection  of  delivery  due  to  defects  by  the  Distributor,  the  Supplier  shall
supply,  within  a  maximum  of  [INSERT  days]  Business  Days  from  the  request  by
the  Distributor  or  such  other  period  as  the  Parties  may  agree,  replacement  Products  (of
the  same quantity as those  rejected by  the Distributor)  free of charge  which are in 
accordance  with the Product Specifications  and terms and conditions of  this  contract.
Supplier shall  promptly  notify  the  Distributor  that  it  is  unable  to  supply 
replacement  Product,whereupon  (without prejudice) the Distributor shall be entitled to  
obtain from any other  supplier such quantity of  the Products as the Supplier has been  
unable to supply, and any  additional  costs  and  expenses  incurred  by  the  Distributor  in
relation  thereto  shall  be  promptly  paid  by  the  Supplier  to  the  Distributor
following  receipt  of  reasonable  substantiating  documentation  and  within  [INSERT 
days]  Business  days  of  receipt  of  documentation.
g. The  Supplier  shall  reimburse  the  Distributor  for  reasonable  costs  and  expenses  incurred
as a result of the rejection  within  [INSERT]  Business days  and  the Distributor shall not
be
required to pay for any rejected Products.
h. The  Distributor  shall  suspend  orders  until  the  Parties  agree  that  any  quality  concerns  or 
defects in relation to the Products have  been satisfactorily addressed.
8.  PRICES AND PAYMENT TERMS
a. The prices,  payment terms  and  Conditions of Sale  in effect at the time of concluding this
contract  are listed in  Schedule [Specify].  If there is any inconsistency between the
terms  or/and  Conditions of Sale and the terms of this contract, the latter shall prevail.
b. The Parties shall agree to the prices for the next calendar year by the end of each current
year. Should the Parties fail to reach such an agreement by that date, each Party shall be
entitled to terminate the contract in writing, and by observing a notice period of
[Specify
9
FECC  MODEL DISTRIBUTION CONTRACT  Original version of 2014; reviewed and updated under EU antitrust law in autumn 2022            
            
     
  
   
 
            
    
   
      
 
    
     
            
 
               
               
              
   
 
                 
  
           
     
             
             
 
  
no.]  months.  Until  the  Parties  reach  an  agreement  or  during  the  time  
between the  termination  notice  and  the  actual  termination,  the  prices  and  terms
of  the  previous  apply.tocontinueshallyearcalendar  ordersAll  received  and
confirmed  by the Supplier
  
   
 
           
    
   
      
 
    
     
            
 
               
               
              
   
 
                 
  
           
     
             
             
 
  
prior to the change in prices shall be invoiced at the price in effect before the change.
c. The Distributor shall not be bound in any way by the prices paid to the Supplier, but  said 
Distributor  shall determine at his own risk the prices for the sale of  the Products to third  
parties.
9.  INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
a. [The  Supplier  shall  grant  to  the  Distributor  a  non-exclusive,  irrevocable,  royalty  free
license  to use its logo,  trademarks and trade names as set out in Schedule  [Specify]  of
this  contract  subject to the restrictions  specified below.] [Use if applicable]
[or]
The Distributor may /  may not  use the Suppliers ’  logo,  trademarks  or other  trade names
other than  to identify and advertise the Products in the course of performing this contract,
and only in the exclusive interest of the  Supplier.  [Alternative clause  –  Use if applicable]
b. The  Distributor shall not permit  the trademarks  to be used  by third parties or register any  
of  the  Supplier’s  patents,  trademarks,  trade  or  brand  names,  registered  designs  or  other
intellectual property rights without the prior consent of the  Supplier.
c. The  Distributor  shall  notify  the  Supplier  of  any  unauthorized  use  in  the  Territory  of  its 
trademarks.  At  the  request  of  the  Supplier  the  Distributor  shall  take  part  in  or  give 
assistance  in  respect  of  any  legal  proceedings  and  execute  any  documents  and  take  any 
action reasonably necessary to protect the trademarks in the Territory.  Costs incurred  in 
doing so shall be borne  by the Supplier.
d. On  expiry  of  this  contract  all  licenses  referred  to  in  this  Clause  9  shall  expire  and  the 
Distributor agrees to immediately cease use of the  Supplier’s  intellectual property.
e. The  Supplier  shall  indemnify  the  Distributor  from  and  against  any  losses,  claims,
damages,  awards, penalties, legal  fees or injuries  incurred, which may  arise out of or in  
connection  with  any  third  party  claim  of  an  alleged  infringement  of  an  Intellectual 
Property  Right  or  any  other  third  party  right  resulting  from  the  purchase,  import,  use,
storage, transport or resale of the Products by the Distributor in accordance with the terms 
of this contract.
10
FECC  MODEL DISTRIBUTION CONTRACT
Original version of 2014; reviewed and updated under EU antitrust law in autumn 202210. CONFIDENTIALITY
a. Both Parties shall keep confidential the specific terms of this Contract and all non-public
information including information relating to the Products and not disclose them to third
parties save to such employees or contractors on a need to know for the purposes of
performing this contract. The Parties will be liable for any breach by their authorized
recipients.
b. The Parties acknowledge that the terms and conditions of this contract may be disclosed
if legally compelled by any relevant authority. The Parties may disclose the terms of this
contract to any government authority or to any competent legal authority as long as and to
the extent reasonably possible, and each Party consults with the other Party before such
announcement on the proposed form, timing, nature and purpose of the announcement.
c. If so requested by the Disclosing Party, upon termination or expiration of this contract all
Confidential Information shall be returned or destroyed, as it may direct.
11. ANTI-BRIBERY COMPLIANCE
a. Both Parties will at all times ensure compliance with applicable anti-bribery legislation
[Specify], and will where necessary, and at their own expense, provide training and
guidance to its own staff to ensure compliance.
b. Both Parties shall undertake to ensure that its employees (including its subcontractors,
agents and other intermediaries) will not, offer, give or agree to give any person
whosoever, or solicit, accept or agree to accept from any person, either directly or
indirectly, anything of value in order to obtain, influence, induce or reward any improper
advantage.
12. FORCE MAJEURE
a. Neither Party shall be liable for delay or failure to perform any obligations under this
contract if the delay or failure is caused by any circumstances beyond its reasonable
control, including but not limited to Acts of God, war, civil disorder or industrial disputes.
If such delay or failure continues for a period of at least [ Specify period, e.g. 30-90 days ]
the Party not subject to the force majeure shall be entitled to terminate this contract by
written notice to the other.
b. The corresponding obligations of the unaffected Party shall be suspended to the same
extent as those of the affected Party.
11
FECC MODEL DISTRIBUTION CONTRACT Original version of 2014; reviewed and updated under EU antitrust law in 
autumn 2022c. The affected Party shall not be in breach of this contract provided it notifies the
unaffected Party in writing as soon as possible setting out the nature and extent of the
Force Majeure circumstances and uses all reasonable actions to mitigate or avoid the
effect of the Force Majeure.
13. LIABILITY
a. Either Party shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless the other Party, in full against all
claims, liabilities, losses, damages, costs, penalties, legal costs and expenses awarded
against or incurred or paid by it as a direct result of:
i. A breach of any warranty given by such Party or obligation imposed on such
Party under this contract;
ii. Any claim that the Products infringe, or their importation, use, supply or resale
infringes any Intellectual Property Rights or other third party rights; and
iii. Any act or omission or breach of statutory duty of the Supplier or its employees,
directors, officers, agents or sub-contractors in manufacturing, supplying, and
delivering the Product.
iv. A Party will not be held liable for any death, injury or damage solely resulting
from the negligent act, misconduct or omission of the other Party.
v. The Supplier shall effect and maintain with a reputable insurance company a
policy or policies of insurance covering all matters which are the subject of
indemnities under this contract consistent with industry standards and as otherwise
provided in this contract.  The Supplier shall at the request of the Distributor produce
the relevant policy or policies together with receipts or other evidence of payment of
the latest premium due there under. Upon the Distributor’s request, the Supplier shall
notify the Distributor in writing of the maximum levels of indemnity insured and
shall advise the Distributor of any material changes with respect to the terms and
conditions of the insurance policy. During the duration of this contract the Supplier
shall not do or omit to do any matter or thing which may prejudice or render voidable
such insurance.
vi. Neither Party nor its Affiliates shall in any circumstances have any liability of any
type for any special, incidental, indirect or consequential damages, including but not
limited to loss of profit, loss of opportunity, loss of use, loss of goodwill, loss of
anticipated savings or loss of business, arising out of or in connection with this
12
FECC MODEL DISTRIBUTION CONTRACT Original version of 2014; reviewed and updated under EU antitrust law in 
autumn 2022Where the conduct of either Party is likely to have a serious or detrimental effectii.
upon the other Party’s business, products and affairs.
If either Party becomes insolvent or unable to deliver or if bankruptcy proceedingsiii.
have been initiated or if a liquidator has been appointed.
contract, other than with respect to the Supplier's breach of ……[Specify
obligation] obligation as set forth in …….[Specify] and for claims related to
mandatory product liability laws.
14. DURATION AND TERMINATION
a. This contract shall enter into force on the Effective Date and shall be in force for a term
of [Specify] years.
{This contract will be automatically renewed for [ Specify] years, if not terminated by
either Party} [Use if applicable].
b. This contract may be terminated without prejudice to Clause 14.a or any right or remedy
either Party may have against the other for breach or non-performance of this contract if
any of the following circumstances arise:
i. Either Party commits a serious or grave breach of this contract or persistent
breaches of this contract including, but not limited to, non-performance, default or
neglect of that Party's duties under this contract and such breach remains un-
remedied for [ Specify period, e.g. 30 days ] after notice of such breach has been
given by the non-defaulting party.
iv.  Where either Party commits any acts of dishonesty, fraud or theft.
c. Such  termination  will  take  place  with  immediate  effect  on  written  notice  to  the  other 
party and without  prejudice to any remedy either  Party may have against the other for any 
breach  committed  prior  to  the  date  of  such  termination  or  which  gave  rise  to  the 
termination.
d. Upon  such  termination  the  Distributor  shall  sell  and  the  Supplier  shall  buy  back  all  the 
Products falling within the classes set out in Schedule [Specify].
e. Upon  termination  the  Distributor  shall  have  no  further  rights  to  use  the  Supplier’s 
trademarks in any way whatsoever.
13
FECC  MODEL DISTRIBUTION CONTRACT
Original version of 2014; reviewed and updated under EU antitrust law in autumn 2022FECC MODEL DISTRIBUTION CONTRACT
f. If  the  Supplier  partially  or  completely  terminates  the  contract  in  the  absence  of  a 
substantial breach of contract by the Distributor  {and in case the contract expires  [use  
if applicable]},  the  Distributor  will  be  entitled  to  compensation.  The  amount  of  
such compensation  shall  equal  [Specify]  %  of  the  average  yearly  invoice  value  
between Supplier and Distributor during the period of validity of the  contract.
g. In particular, the  Distributor  will be entitled to compensation if he has created a clientele  
and/or  a  network  of  sub-distributors,  thus  leaving  the  Supplier  a  large  increase  in
  goodwill  value  from  which  he  will  benefit  after  the  contract  is  terminated
[Use  if
applicable].
15.  JURISDICTION AND  DISPUTE RESOLUTION
a. The Parties hereby acknowledge and declare that this contract is subject to  and governed 
by [Specify Law]  and the jurisdiction of the  [Specify Country] courts.
b. Any dispute arising out of or in connection with this contract shall  be settled, if possible  
by friendly negotiation and in good  faith by the  Parties.  If settlement  cannot be reached  
by negotiation, the dispute shall be finally resolved by  [Specify no. e.g. single ]  
arbitrator pursuant to the Rules of Conciliation and Arbitration of  [Specify].  The Place of 
arbitration will be [Specify] and the arbitration proceedings shall be conducted in English  
[or  Specify language]. Any arbitration award or decision shall be final and binding on 
the Parties to
this contract.
16.  MISCELLANEOUS
a. Any  notice  given  by  either  of  the  Parties  shall  be  served  on  the  other  Party  by  personal 
delivery, pre-paid recorded delivery, first class post, telex or facsimile  transmission to the 
receiving Party's address set out in this  contract  or such subsequent addresses as may be  
notified by the Parties to each other.
b. Each Party will pay the costs and expenses incurred by it in connection with entering into  
this  contract.
c. At any time during the term of this  contract, the Parties may assign any or all of its rights  
or transfer any or all of its obligations hereunder to any Affiliate.
d. Entire contract:  [use  where  applicable]
14Original version of 2014; reviewed and updated under EU antitrust law in 
autumn 2022(Distributor)(Supplier)
(Distributor)(Supplier)
i. It is hereby declared that the foregoing paragraphs, sub paragraphs and clauses of this
contract shall be read and construed independently of each other.  Should any part of
this contract or its paragraphs, sub paragraphs or clauses be found invalid it shall not
affect the remaining paragraphs, sub paragraphs and clauses.
ii. The Schedules to this contract constitute an integral part thereof.
iii. Failure by either Party to enforce any accrued rights under this contract is not to be
taken as or deemed to be a waiver of those rights unless the waiving Party
acknowledges the waiver in writing.
iv. No addition to or modification of any clause in this contract shall be binding on the
Parties unless made in writing and signed by the signatories to this contract or their
duly authorized representatives.
v. This contract sets out the entire agreement and understanding of the Parties and is in
substitution of any previous written or oral agreement between the Parties.
vi. Reference to any Statutory Provisions in this contract shall include any Statutory
Provisions, which amends or replaces it.
Read, approved and signed in/at
Place/Date Place/Date
FECC MODEL DISTRIBUTION CONTRACT
15
Original version of 2014; reviewed and updated under EU antitrust law in 
autumn 2022Annexes/ Schedules2
2 Indicative list only.
FECC MODEL DISTRIBUTION CONTRACT
Examples of Annexes/Schedules
a. Product details and specifications
b. Territory details
c. Price List and Payment terms and conditions
d. Supply  terms and conditions
e. Contract Execution Specifications
f. Quality specifications and requirements if applicable
g. Indent business
h. Implications of REACH on the scope and purpose of the agreement/contract. e.g., it can 
be provided that:
 Substances of Very High Concern (SVHC) are explicitly excluded from the contract;
 The  burdensome  task  of  communicating  information  about  the  presence  of  a  SVHC
(in a concentration above 0.1% w/  or 0.1% according  to Member State  definitions) is 
set forth and organized in the contract;
 The  parties  can  agree  in  the  contract  to  provide  each  other  with  prior  notice  of 
reclassification,  authorization  or  restrictions  under  REACH  and  make  this  a  reason 
for amending or terminating the contract;
 The parties can agree on a specific clause in the contract dealing with a procedure for  
jointly handling reclassification,  authorization  or restrictions tasks.
i. Implications of the Biocidal Products  regulation  on contractual requirements.
j. Use by dates/ optimal use by date  –  There are may be no legal requirement on distributors 
to include use by dates or optimum  use periods on labels. However, if the distributor does 
so  under  instruction  from  the  principal  then  the  conditions  need  to  be  specified  in  the 
contract e.g. what happens with products after the date/period.
16
Original version of 2014; reviewed and updated under EU antitrust law in autumn 2022Supplement
A. DISTRIBUTION CONTRACT – CHECKLIST3
1. Parties
 Who are the parties to this contract?
 Key contact details & details of legal entities of both parties
2. Description of the product
 E.g. Individual product or product line
3. Type of distribution contract
 Non-exclusive/ exclusive
4. Territorial requirements
 Identify territory
5. Duration
 Specify duration
 Renewal/Expiry, if applicable
6. Dates
 Contract date
 Commencement date
Obligations of the Distributor
Obligations of the Supplier
9. Supply of products
 E.g. Manner in which the supply of products to the distributor is
3 This is a sample checklist only.
FECC MODEL DISTRIBUTION CONTRACT 17Original version of 2014; reviewed and updated under EU antitrust 
law in autumn 2022determined
Order procedure
10. Pricing
 Set out the manner in which pricing is to be determined
11. Costs
 E.g. In relation to storage, sales, warranty etc and who pays?
12. Payment terms and conditions
 Time, currency and method of payment
 Payment of any associated taxes
13. Ownership and Risk
 When does title/risk pass to the distributor?
14. Competition/ Competitor’s Products
 Can the distributor sell suppliers’ competitors’ products?
15. New products – first right of refusal (if applicable)
 Gives the distributor first right of refusal to market new products or
services of the Supplier in the defined territory and market.
16. Compliance with applicable regulatory regimes
 E.g. Pertaining to import/export, safety, labelling etc.
17. Trademarks and Intellectual Property
 Rights of the distributor to use suppliers’ trademarks and other
intellectual properties
18. Promotion of the products,  e.g.
 Who is responsible for marketing and promotion?
FECC MODEL DISTRIBUTION CONTRACT
  18
Original version of 2014; reviewed and updated under EU antitrust law in 
autumn 2022Will marketing and promotions costs be shared?
19. After-sales services if any
 Who is responsible for after sales issues?
 Product liability insurance?
20. Sales targets if any
21. Warranty of the Products
 What obligations does the distributor have?
 Product/goods or services warranty
22. Shipping and delivery provisions
 E.g. inspection, possession, title, risk of loss, insurance, change of
circumstances.
23. Defective Products
 What happens if the distributor receives defective products?
 Recall
24. Termination of the Contract
 Termination triggers e.g. breach of contract.
 How can the contract be terminated?
 Notice period.
25. Post-termination obligations, e.g.
 Cessation of use of trademarks
 Supplier’s right or obligation to repurchase inventory
 Will the distributor be allowed to sell-off stock and for what period?
FECC MODEL DISTRIBUTION CONTRACT
  19
Original version of 2014; reviewed and updated under EU antitrust law in 
autumn 202226. Indemnity
 What indemnities are to be provided for by the parties? E.g. in case
of injury resulting from use of the product.
27. Governing Law / Jurisdiction
 Which country’s law prevails in the case of a dispute?
 Mediation and arbitration clauses, who pays costs?
28. Confidentiality requirements
 E.g. information pertaining to the product/s
29. Force majeure clause
SCHEDULE/ ANNEXES4
List and description of products that Distributor will seek sales
of.
Specify geographical territory in which Distributor will operate.
Provide details of product trademarks licensed and approved
format of use to the Distributor by the Supplier.
Provide list of products that the Supplier will buy back from the
Distributor on termination of the contract.
Quality assurance provisions if any.
Etc.
4 Indicative only.
FECC MODEL DISTRIBUTION CONTRACT 20Original version of 2014; reviewed and updated under EU antitrust 
law in autumn 2022B. LAW APPLICABLE TO DISTRIBUTION AGREEMENTS5
COUNTRY APPLICABLE LAW/LEGISLATION
ARGENTINA
 No specific framework/provisions.
 According to the Argentine Civil Code depends on terms and conditions of contracts.
AUSTRIA
 No specific provisions.
 Rules established by Austrian Supreme Court/practical experience/case law.
 In some case provisions of Austrian Commercial Agents Act (ACAA).
BELGIUM
nilateral termination of Exclusive Distributorship Agreements gratedLaw applicable  “U
ationfor an indefinite dur ” (1961) (ACT)
f case lawoMore than 50 years
o most Agreements and when not provisions governed by BelgianACT is applicable t
Contract Law.
ns to applyACT has 3 conditio – exclusive distributor; in the territory of Belgium and
ite period.appointed for indefin
BRAZIL
No specific legislation protecting distributors, distribution agreements are governed by
the Brazilian Civil Code.
BULGARIA
ons protecting distributors.No specific provisi
w, relationship between a distributor and a supplier can be classifiedUnder Bulgarian la
agency or as a continuous supply agreement depending on the rightseither as commercial
ut.and obligations set o
dent the distributor the less likely will it qualify as a commercialThe more indepen
ial agent acts on behalf of the principal while the distributor acts onagent. The commerc
ears the risk of its own economic activity.its own behalf and b
regulated by Bulgarian Commercial Act (Art.32-48).yCommercial agenc
CHINA
       
 
 
  
      
 
 
   
  
5  This section  includes  an  overview of the  legislation  over multiple jurisdictions as of 2014 but has not been 
updated and does not cover all aspects of the  law and requirements for these jurisdictions that may apply to your 
business. While the laws and requirements on  this topic continue to evolve and develop, you should consult with 
your legal counsel to check for completeness  of  this  information, as well as ensure your compliance with all the 
laws and requirements applicable to your business.
FECC  MODEL DISTRIBUTION CONTRACT  Original version of 2014      21COUNTRY APPLICABLE LAW/LEGISLATION
Distribution agreements are covered by Contract Law of the People's Republic of China
(PRC).
Anti-monopoly Law of the PRC also has relevant provisions (i.e. prohibited behavior)
International sales and distribution provisions covered by Foreign Trade Law of the
PRC and PRC Regulations for the Control of Foreign Exchange.
CYPRUS
 No specific provisions protecting distributors.
 Cyprus Contract law
CZECH Rep.
No specific provisions.
Czech Commercial code applies – does not recognize distribution agreements.
Distribution agreements can be considered commercial representation, sales contract or
contract having aspects of the two.
DENMARK
 No specific provisions covering distributors.
 General principles of Danish Contract law and Danish Commercial Agents Act apply.
ESTONIA
 No specific provisions.
 Provisions of the Estonian Law of Obligations Act apply.
FINLAND
 No specific provisions.
 Applicable law – Finnish Contract law and Sale of Goods legislation.
FRANCE
 No specific provisions.
 Provisions of the French Commercial Code apply.
GERMANY
No specific statutory provisions.
Provisions of the German Commercial Code (HGB) apply. Sections of the HGB
implement the Agency Directive but also go beyond the scope of the Agency Directive.
General contractual principles and rules developed by the Courts also apply.
GREECE
Commercial agency – Presidential Decree 219/1991.
Law 3557/2007 – provisions for exclusive distributors.
When there is a degree of integration with the supplier commercial organization –
commercial agency principles will be applied (according to Greek Case law).
22
FECC MODEL DISTRIBUTION CONTRACT Original version of 2014COUNTRY APPLICABLE LAW/LEGISLATION
HUNGARY
 No specific provisions.
 General provisions of the Hungarian Civil Code.
INDIA
No specific statutory provisions.
General Contract Law. At present the Indian Contract Act may be divided into two parts
Part 1:deals with the General Principles of Law of Contract;
Part 2: deals with Special kinds of Contracts such as (a) Contract of Indemnity and
Guarantee (b) Contract of Bailment and Pledge (c) Contract of Agency.
IRELAND
 No specific provisions.
 General principles of Irish Contract Law.
ITALY
ons.No specific provisi
ents fall under the general category ofDistribution agreem ‘sale agreements’.
Provisions applicable - Italian Civil code.General legislative
g lawChoice of governin – parties are free to select any law to govern the contract. If
law the distribution agreement shall be governed by the law of thesilent on governing
stributor is based.country where the di
ject to Italian Law - Further, where one party is not Italian it dependsBased in Italy - Sub
ion of the distribution agreement.on the date of execut
17 December 2009- Until – Rules of 1980 Rome Convention on
tractual Obligations.Con
17 December 2009- After – EU Regulation 593/2008 on Contractual
gations.obli
LATVIA
 No specific provisions.
 Provisions of Latvian Commercial Law and Civil Law applicable
LITHUANIA
 Distribution contracts are covered by section of Civil Code of the Rep. of Lithuania.
 For aspects not covered – applicable law - General Rules of Civil law.
LUXEMBOURG
 No specific provisions.
 General Contracts law applicable.
MEXICO
23
FECC MODEL DISTRIBUTION CONTRACT Original version of 2014COUNTRY APPLICABLE LAW/LEGISLATION
A distribution agreement is a non-regulated agreement under Mexican law, hence the
agreement is regulated by the terms and conditions of the agreement.
NETHERLANDS
 No specific provisions.
 General provisions of Dutch Contract law apply and terms of the agreement.
NORWAY
No specific provisions.
General contractual law.
If nature of the distribution agreement is similar to an agency agreement – Agency Act
will apply.
POLAND
 No specific provisions.
 Provisions of the Polish Civil Code apply.
PORTUGAL
 No specific provisions.
 General principles of Contract law.
 Provisions of the Portuguese Agency Law applicable.
ROMANIA
 No specific provisions.
 General Commercial/Contract law and Consumer protection legislation apply.
RUSSIA
 No specific provisions.
 Provisions of the Russian Civil code applicable.
SLOVAKIA
No specific provisions.
Law applicable will be chosen by the parties subject to Slovak conflict of law’s
provisions.
Slovak law does not differentiate distribution agreements – thus the agreement is
considered a commercial representation, exclusive sales contract or combination of both.
SLOVENIA
 No specific provisions.
 Provisions of the Slovenian Obligations Code applicable.
SPAIN
24
FECC MODEL DISTRIBUTION CONTRACT Original version of 2014COUNTRY APPLICABLE LAW/LEGISLATION
 No specific provisions.
 Provisions of Spanish Civil Code and Commercial code apply.
SWEDEN
 No specific provisions.
 Terms of the agreement and general principles of Swedish contract law apply.
SWITZERLAND
Rules applicable to distribution developed in particular by case law.
Statutory provisions for Agency and for ordinary partnership of the Swiss Code of
Obligations are applicable (depending on the agreement).
UKRAINE
 No specific provisions.
 Ukrainian Civil Code and Commercial Code (and sale of goods) applicable.
UNITED KINGDOM
 No specific provisions.
 General aspects of English Contract law and principles from case law.
UNITED STATES
Article 2 of the Uniform Commercial Code governs sale of goods – adopted by all states
except Louisiana.
Depends on choice of laws of a State.
General principles of Contract law and terms of the agreement.
25
FECC MODEL DISTRIBUTION CONTRACT Original version of 2014C. EU COMPETITION LAW AND DISTRIBUTION CONTRACTS:
COMPLIANCE MATTERS
Competition rules applying to undertakings - Treaty on the Functioning of the European
Union (TFEU)
- Core Provisions
1. Article 101(ex Article 81 Treaty establishing the European Community -TEC)
1. The following shall be prohibited as incompatible with the internal market: all agreements
between undertakings, decisions by associations of undertakings and concerted practices
which may affect trade between Member States and which have as their object or effect the
prevention, restriction or distortion of competition within the internal market, and in
particular those which:
(a) directly or indirectly fix purchase or selling prices or any other trading conditions;
(b) limit or control production, markets, technical development, or investment;
(c) share markets or sources of supply;
(d) apply dissimilar conditions to equivalent transactions with other trading parties, thereby
placing them at a competitive disadvantage;
(e) make the conclusion of contracts subject to acceptance by the other parties of supplementary
obligations which, by their nature or according to commercial usage, have no connection
with the subject of such contracts.
2. Any agreements or decisions prohibited pursuant to this Article shall be automatically void.
3. The provisions of paragraph 1 may, however, be declared inapplicable in the case of:
- any agreement or category of agreements between undertakings,
- any decision or category of decisions by associations of undertakings,
- any concerted practice or category of concerted practices,
which contributes to improving the production or distribution of goods or to promoting
technical or economic progress, while allowing consumers a fair share of the resulting benefit,
and which does not:
(a) impose on the undertakings concerned restrictions which are not indispensable to the
attainment of these objectives;
(b) afford such undertakings the possibility of eliminating competition in respect of a
substantial part of the products in question.
  26
FECC MODEL DISTRIBUTION CONTRACT
Original version of 2014; reviewed and updated under EU antitrust law in autumn 20222. Article 102 (ex Article 82 TEC)
Any abuse by one or more undertakings of a dominant position within the internal market or in
a substantial part of it shall be prohibited as incompatible with the internal market in so far as it
may affect trade between Member States.
Such abuse may, in particular, consist in:
(a) directly or indirectly imposing unfair purchase or selling prices or other unfair trading
conditions;
(b) limiting production, markets or technical development to the prejudice of consumers;
(c) applying dissimilar conditions to equivalent transactions with other trading parties, thereby
placing them at a competitive disadvantage;
(d) making the conclusion of contracts subject to acceptance by the other parties of
supplementary obligations which, by their nature or according to commercial usage, have
no connection with the subject of such contracts.
3. Article 103 (ex Article 83 TEC)
The appropriate regulations or directives to give effect to the principles set out in Articles 101
and 102 shall be laid down by the Council, on a proposal from the Commission and after
consulting the European Parliament.
The regulations or directives referred to in paragraph 1 shall be designed in particular:
(a) to ensure compliance with the prohibitions laid down in Article 101(1) and in Article 102 by
making provision for fines and periodic penalty payments;
(b) to lay down detailed rules for the application of Article 101(3), taking into account the need
to ensure effective supervision on the one hand, and to simplify administration to the greatest
possible extent on the other;
(c) to define, if need be, in the various branches of the economy, the scope of the provisions of
Articles 101 and 102;
(d) to define the respective functions of the Commission and of the Court of Justice of the
European Union in applying the provisions laid down in this paragraph;
(e) to determine the relationship between national laws and the provisions contained in this
Section or adopted pursuant to this Article.
 
 
            
 
 
4. Article 104  (ex Article 84 TEC)
Until  the  entry  into  force  of  the  provisions  adopted  in  pursuance  of  Article  103, the  authorities
in  Member  States  shall  rule  on  the  admissibility  of  agreements,  decisions  and  concerted
practices  and  on  abuse  of  a  dominant  position  in  the internal  market  in  accordance  with  the  law
of their country and with the provisions of Article 101, in particular paragraph 3, and of Article
102.
  27
FECC  MODEL DISTRIBUTION CONTRACT
Original version of 2014; reviewed and updated under EU antitrust law in autumn 20225. Article 105 (ex Article 85 TEC)
1. Without prejudice to Article 104, the Commission shall ensure the application of the
principles laid down in Articles 101 and 102. On application by a Member State or on its own
initiative, and in cooperation with the competent authorities in the Member States, which shall
give it their assistance, the Commission shall investigate cases of suspected infringement of
these principles. If it finds that there has been an infringement, it shall propose appropriate
measures to bring it to an end.
2. If the infringement is not brought to an end, the Commission shall record such infringement
of the principles in a reasoned decision. The Commission may publish its decision and authorise
Member States to take the measures, the conditions and details of which it shall determine,
needed to remedy the situation.
3. The Commission may adopt regulations relating to the categories of agreement in respect of
which the Council has adopted a regulation or a directive pursuant to Article 103(2)(b).
6 See, Summaries of EU Legislation, Competition
      
Block Exemption Regulations/  Exemptions  for vertical supply and distribution agreements6
Whether  a  vertical  agreement  actually  restricts  competition  or  not  will  often  depend  on  the 
market  structure.  The  Commission has adopted Regulation  (EU) 2022/720 7, the Block
Exemption Regulation  (the BER), which provides a safe harbour for most vertical agreements.
The BER renders, by block exemption, the prohibition of Article 101(1) TFEU inapplicable to  
vertical  agreements  which  fulfil  certain  requirements.  The  Commission  has  also 
published  guidelines on vertical restraints.
- Requirements for application of the Block Exemption Regulation
The  first  requirement  is  that  the  agreement  does  not  contain  any  of  the hardcore  restrictions  
set
 
out  in  the  BER.  The  second  requirement  concerns  a market  share  cap of  30  %  for  both   
suppliers and buyers. Thirdly, the BER contains conditions relating to three  specific restrictions.
 Hardcore restrictions
a. Suppliers are not allowed to fix the (minimum) price at which distributors can resell their  
products.
b. Distributors  must  remain  free  to  decide  where  and  to  whom  they  sell.  The  BER  contains 
exceptions  to  this  rule,  which,  for  instance,  enable  companies  to  operate  an  exclusive 
distribution system or a selective distribution system.
c. Selected distributors, while being prohibited to sell to unauthorised distributors, cannot be  
restricted in the end-users to whom they may sell. Secondly, t
d. The  appointed  distributors  must  remain  free  to  sell  or  purchase  the  contract  goods  to  or
from other appointed distributors within the network.
e. An agreement between a manufacturer of spare parts and a buyer which incorporates these
parts  into  its  own  products  may  not  prevent  or  restrict  sales  by  the  manufacturer  of  these
spare parts to end users, independent repairers or service providers.
 
      
28
 
  
 7  OJ L 134, 11.5.2022, p. 4–13 - https://eur-lex.europa.eu/eli/reg/2022/720/oj
FECC MODEL DISTRIBUTION CONTRACT
Original version of 2014; reviewed and updated under EU antitrust law in autumn 2022Downloadable Compilations of EU antitrust legislation
6. Vol.1. General Rules -
http://ec.europa.eu/competition/antitrust/legislation/handbook_vol_1_en.pdf
7.
http://ec.europa.eu/competition/antitrust/legislation/handbook_vol_2_en.pdf
8.
Vol.2  –  General Block exemption  –  Regulations and Guidelines  (outdated)
 
 
 
 
    
 
  
  
 
 
 
             
 30% market share cap
A vertical agreement is covered by this BER if both  the supplier and the buyer of the goods or  
services do not have a market share exceeding 30  %. For the supplier, it is its market share on  
the relevant supply market, i.e. the market on which it sells the goods or services that is decisive 
for the application of the block exemption. For the buyer, it is its market share on the relevant  
purchase market, i.e. the market on which it purchases the goods or services, which is decisive
for the application of the BER.
  Excluded restrictions
The  BER  regulation  applies  to  all  vertical  restraints  other  than  the  abovementioned  hardcore 
restraints. However, it does impose specific conditions on three vertical restraints:
a. non-compete obligations during the contract;
b. non-compete obligations after termination of the contract;
c. the exclusion of specific brands in a selective distribution system.
d. non-compete obligations imposed on buyers of online intermediation services not to offer,
sell or resell goods or services to end users under more favorable conditions via competing
online intermediation services.
EU Cartel Legislation  -
http://ec.europa.eu/competition/cartels/legislation/cartel_compilation_en.pdf
 
  
 
 
    
 
9. EU Merger control legislation  -
http://ec.europa.eu/competition/mergers/legislation/merger_law_2013_web.pdf
10. Vertical Agreements and Guidelines  -
https://competition-policy.ec.europa.eu/antitrust/legislation/vertical-block-exemptions_en
11. Horizontal Agreements  -
  https://competition-policy.ec.europa.eu/antitrust/legislation/horizontal-block-exemptions_en
12. Changes to EU Competition Law after the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon (1 December
2009) -  http://ec.europa.eu/competition/information/treaty.html
Other resources
13. Summaries and checklists: EU Competition Rules applicable to firms  -
http://europa.eu/legislation_summaries/competition/firms/index_en.htm
29
FECC MODEL DISTRIBUTION CONTRACT
Original version of 2014; reviewed and updated under EU antitrust law in autumn 202214. DG Competition's Antitrust Manual of Procedures -
http://ec.europa.eu/competition/antitrust/antitrust_manproc_3_2012_en.pdf
15. Inspection explanatory note: Describes what happens during an inspection and clarifies the rights
and obligations of the company being inspected -
http://ec.europa.eu/competition/antitrust/legislation/explanatory_note.pdf
16. European Commission Antitrust/Cartels - practical Information -
http://ec.europa.eu/competition/antitrust/information_en.html
17. European Commission brochure – Compliance Matters - http://bookshop.europa.eu/is-
bin/INTERSHOP.enfinity/WFS/EU-Bookshop-Site/en_GB/-/EUR/ViewPublication-
Start?PublicationKey=KD3211985
  30
FECC MODEL DISTRIBUTION CONTRACT
Original version of 2014; reviewed and updated under EU antitrust law in autumn 2022