 Non-Disclosure
Agreement Form
 
 
Contents
Introduction  Non-Disclosure
Agreement Types
Examples of information
that must be included when 
signing a non-disclosure 
agreement.
 Elements of a
 Non-Disclosure
Agreement
 Non-disclosure
Agreement Form3
introduction
A nondisclosure agreement, also known as a conﬁdentiality agreement or 
conﬁdentiality disclosure agreement, is a binding legal document between two or 
more parties in which they agree to maintain the conﬁdentiality of sensitive 
information they possess
The signiﬁcance of a non-disclosure agreement lies in its protection of new ideas, 
conﬁdential information, and speciﬁc technical details, while also securing the rights 
of the affected parties. In the event of a breach of the agreement, the disclosing 
party may face legal action, be held liable for damages resulting from the breach, and 
potentially be required to provide ﬁnancial compensation to the affected party, 
depending on the level of risk involved. 
 Types of Non-Disclosure Agreement
Unilateral
Bilateral 
Only one party may request conﬁdentiality, wherein the disclosing party is expected 
to provide information to the recipient, and the recipient must maintain strict 
conﬁdentiality.
such as
 An employee who works in a department and has access to sensitive information,   
 is required by the company to sign a non-disclosure agreement (which may be   
 incorporated into the employee's contract).
 An entrepreneur (or company) dealing with a specialist (ﬁnancial, legal, or    
 technical, etc.), whether he is a company, an independent, or a consultant and he  
 is required to sign a non-disclosure agreement to preserve his privacy.
Both parties in the agreement require conﬁdentiality as they exchange and must 
uphold the secrecy of sensitive information.
 such as 
 Two companies enter into discussions about joint ventures or a potential merger   
 and disclose conﬁdential information. The non-disclosure agreement protects the   
 privacy of the two companies.
All rights reserved © 2022
Non-Disclosure 
Agreement FormAll rights reserved © 2022
Non-Disclosure 
Agreement Form
Examples of information that must be 
included when signing a non-disclosure 
agreement.
Multilateral
Three or more parties are all obligated not to disclose, and this type of agreement 
obviates the need for a number of unilateral or bilateral agreements, 
such as
 One agreement concluded by three parties each disclosing information to the other  
 parties, which can be used instead of three bilateral agreements.
Records and data
Financial information such as 
lists and budgets
Databases such as customer 
data
Pricing strategies 
Special products details
Inventions, innovations and 
own ideas
Strategic and operational plans01 02
03 04
05
07
06
 Types of Non-Disclosure Agreement
4All rights reserved © 2022
Non-Disclosure 
Agreement Form
 Elements of a Non-Disclosure Agreement
Names and personal data of the signatories 
to the Agreement
Purpose of the agreement
Identiﬁcation of conﬁdential informations
Agreement TERM
Non-circumvention terms
Penalty for violating the agreement
Specify what is allowed and what is prohibited.
Identify exceptional cases if any
The details of the NDA may vary depending on the parties or the nature of the work, 
but the following themes should be included:
5  :
     /     /14
    /    /20)" (" :
  :......................................
....................: ،
................))""(.  
 : ......................................
 :.....................، 
................))""(.  
 ً  
:  
 )1:(
 :
)
 :(
 .
  .
")
("
  .
Date: 
This Agreement was entered into on          , dated    /   /     14 H    , 
corresponding to      /      /    20 G, by and between: 
First Party: The ...................... located in ……… .., Saudi Arabia, 
Commercial registration number:………………… .. at the address P.O. 
………… ..(hereinafter referred to as “First Party”).
Second Party: The ...................... located in ……… .., Saudi Arabia, 
Commercial registration number:………………… .. at the address P.O. 
………… ..(hereinafter referred to as “Second Party”).
WHEREAS the nature of the works contracted upon between the 
parties requires the disclosure of certain conﬁdential information by 
First Party, 
NOW THEREFORE, the Parties having full legal capacity have hereby 
agreed to the following terms and conditions
Article (1):
All Information disclosed by the First Party shall remain conﬁdential and 
proprietary to the First Party. The Conﬁdential Information means and 
includes, but is not limited to, the following types of Information and 
other Information of a similar nature (whether in writing or otherwise): 
patents, discoveries, concepts, methodology, software in various stages 
of development, speciﬁcations, techniques, models, data, source code, 
documentation, processes, procedures, know-how, marketing techniques 
and materials, strategies, customer names and other Information related 
to customers, partners and suppliers, price lists, pricing policies and 
ﬁnancial Information.  Information also includes any Information 
described above which the First Party obtains from another third party 
and which it treats it as proprietary or designates as Conﬁdential 
Information whether or not owned or developed by the First Party. The 
Second Party conﬁrms that the regulations and internal rules of First 
Party relating to the use of Information are all proprietary to First Party. 
All what is stated above in this Article shall be thereon referred to as the 
(“Conﬁdential Information”). The events stated in Article Six of this 
Agreement shall be excluded from the Conﬁdential Information. 
Non-Disclosure Agreement 
    ّ
Non-Disclosure Agreement
All rights reserved © 2022
Non-Disclosure 
Agreement Form
6Article (2): 
The Second Party acknowledges that the Information provided or to be 
provided to them hereunder in no way constitutes or gives rise to any 
representation or warranty by First Party as to the accuracy or 
completeness thereof and the signature of this Agreement is not 
intended to give rise to any promise or consent to enter into any 
agreement or arrangement with the Second Party in any form. 
Article (3): 
The Second Party undertakes to use the resources and Information of 
First Party only for performing our scope of work relating to the services 
to be provided to First Party by us, their afﬁliates, ofﬁcers, employees, 
agents, consultants and advisers (hereinafter “Representatives”). The 
Second Party undertakes to take all the necessary measures to maintain 
the security of these resources and conﬁdentiality of any related 
Information, including requiring their Representatives to execute a non-
disclosure agreement in a form satisfactory to the First Party. 
Article (4): 
The Second Party undertakes to keep conﬁdential and not to disclose, 
copy or take pictures or assign any disclosed or obtained Information 
relating to matters and interests that the Second Party or any of their 
Representatives may be informed about or have received, directly or 
indirectly from the First Party, and refrain from making copies or taking 
pictures of such  Information except where necessary for the provision of 
their services to First Party, and only after receiving a written consent in 
advance from First Party. 
Article (5): 
The Second Party agrees and acknowledges that any computer hardware 
or software, documents and authorities, or any substantive or technical 
studies, researches or Information; Representatives to First Party, 
whether obtained through direct or indirect means, from sources related 
to First Party, or any of its clients, or representatives as work products; 
are the exclusive property of First Party, and any use of them outside of 
the framework of our scope of work is strictly prohibited. The Second 
Party also undertakes not to disclose, either directly or indirectly any of 
foregoing Information to any person or entity under any circumstances 
without the prior written consent issued by First Party.
 )2:(
 .
 )3:(
)
"  .("
 ً        .
 )4 :(
  .
 )5 :(
  ً    . 
. 
    ً        
.  
Non-Disclosure Agreement 
    ّ
Non-Disclosure Agreement
All rights reserved © 2022
Non-Disclosure 
Agreement Form
7 )6:(
 ,
 .
  :
-     ً      
.  
-.  
-
.  
-. 
 )7 :(
  .
 )8 :(
) (
 .
  .
 )9 :(
  .
Article (6): 
The Second Party agrees and acknowledges that their Representatives 
are prohibited to damage, misuse, publish or disclose or keep any 
document or conﬁdential Information or special equipment of First Party 
or any entity or other organization working with First Party.  
The Second Party shall use Information only for the above stated 
purposes, and shall keep conﬁdential and not disclose the Information to 
any other person, ﬁrm or corporation, except to the extent that any 
Information:
A- Is or becomes part of the public domain by no fault of Receiving Party.
B- Was known to the Receiving Party prior to the disclosure by Disclosing 
Party.
C- Is independently developed or acquired by the Receiving Party without a 
breach of any Agreement.
D- Is required to be disclosed by law. 
Article (7): 
The Second Party and their Representatives undertake to return any 
Information or documents concerning First Party in their possession 
immediately upon expiration or termination of the Second Party services 
to First Party or the Representatives services with the Second Party, or if 
requested by GEA at any time.
Article (8): 
Nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed to grant to the Second Party 
a license (expressly or by implication) under any patent, copyright or 
other intellectual property right.  The Second Party hereby acknowledges 
and conﬁrms that all existing and future intellectual property rights 
relating to the Conﬁdential Information are the exclusive property of the 
First Party.  The Second Party will not apply for or obtain any intellectual 
property protection in respect of the Conﬁdential Information. 
Article (9): 
The Second Party undertakes that in case of any breach or violation by 
them or their Representatives to any of the provisions contained within 
this Agreement, and that may cause damages to First Party, to inform 
First Party directly and urgently to protect it from any risk or damage.
Non-Disclosure Agreement 
    ّ
Non-Disclosure Agreement
All rights reserved © 2022
Non-Disclosure 
Agreement Form
8 )10 :(
  .
 )11 :(
  .
 )12 :(
.
 )13:(
.
 )14 :(
   ُ      .  
 )15 :(
 ً             
  ،    ،   ً   
.  
: 
: 
: 
Article (10): 
The First Party has the right to immediately terminate the Agreement 
upon the violation of any of the provisions by the Second Party hereof, 
without any obligations or liability on First Party as a result of that 
termination. The Second Party shall also compensate First Party for any 
damages or costs suffered by First Party due to the Second Party’s 
violation of any of this Agreement’s provisions.
Article (11): 
First Party shall be entitled to seek an injunction to restrain any breach or 
the continuation of any breach of this Agreement.
Article (12): 
This Agreement shall take effect on the date of its signing and the 
obligations in this Agreement shall continue indeﬁnitely unless revoked 
by First Party.
Article (13): 
This Agreement is governed by the laws and regulations of the Kingdom 
of Saudi Arabia, and any dispute arising out of or in connection with this 
Agreement is subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the competent 
courts in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
Article (14): 
This Agreement was written in two versions in Arabic and English and 
each Party received a signed copy of the Agreement, which was 
translated into English only as a guide, and the Arabic version is the 
ofﬁcial version in all matters of interpretation and dispute, including any 
judicial proceedings. 
Article (15):
No waiver of any provision of this Agreement shall constitute a waiver of 
any other provision(s). IN WITNESS WHEREOF, and intending to be 
legally bound, the Second Party have duly executed this Agreement by 
their authorized representatives as of the date below. 
Name: 
Signature: 
Date:
Non-Disclosure Agreement 
    ّ
Non-Disclosure Agreement
All rights reserved © 2022
Non-Disclosure 
Agreement Form
9