CODE OF
CONDUCT3
Code of Conduct
Performing with Integrity
Since its inception, Sinar Mas has demonstrated a commitment to 
performance with integrity . But past record matters little if each 
of us does not continue to make the right decisions and take the 
right actions - it takes only one lapse and one person to blemish our 
reputation. This is why we are introducing an updated GAR Code of 
Conduct which spells out the standards we expect all our employees 
to follow and the behaviors we expect them to adopt.
As we focus on becoming the best integrated global Agribusiness 
and Food company, we must recognize that there is no conflict 
between excellent business performance and high standard of 
integrity. In fact, the two are mutually reinforcing. Guidance by the 
Code of Conduct will maintain our customers’ confidence in our 
products and services and this enables us to grow our reputation 
and our business. This is performance with integrity .
I ask each person in the GAR family to make a personal commitment 
to follow our Code of Conduct. You can act on this commitment by 
reading, understanding and being guided by the Code of Conduct. 
GAR leaders have an even greater responsibility - they are expected 
to serve as role models and nurture a culture in which compliance 
with the Code of Conduct is at the core of business activities.
We want the Code to be more than a collection of high sounding 
statements. It must have practical value in our day-to-day business 
and each one of us must follow these principles in spirit as well as in 
letter. Performing with integrity is everyone’s responsibility .
FRANKY OESMAN WIDJAJA
Chairman
MESSAGE
FROM OUR CHAIRMAN 
5
Code of Conduct
VISION 
“Be the best, fully-integrated, global agribusiness and
consumer product company – the partner of choice.”
 
MISSION 
“We efficiently provide sustainable and superior quality 
agribusiness and consumer products, solutions and services to 
create value for all our stakeholders.”
SHARED VALUES
7
Code of Conduct
INTEGRITY
We put statements or promises into actions so that one 
can earn the trust of others
POSITIVE ATTITUDE
We display encouraging behaviour towards the creation of
a mutually appreciative and conducive working environment
COMMITMENT
We perform our work whole heartedly in order to achieve 
the best results
CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT
We continuously enhance the capability of self, working unit 
and organization to obtain the best results
INNOVATION
We come up with ideas or create new products/ tools/
systems that can increase productivity and the Company’s growth
LOYALTY
We cultivate the spirit of knowing, understanding, and 
implementing the Company’s core values as part of the GAR family
COMPANY CULTURE
9
Code of Conduct
PERfORMANCE
We deliver outstanding results
COLLAbORATION
We work as a team
OwNERShIP
We do what is best for the Company
PEOPLE
We realise our people’s potential
10
Code of Conduct
CONTENTS
MESSAGE FROM OUR CHAIRMAN 
VISION AND MISSION STATEMENT
SINAR MAS SHARED VALUES 
COMPANY CULTURE11
Code of Conduct
INTRODUCTION 
Why do we Have a Code?
Who is Required to Follow our Code?
What Law do I Follow?
How do I Ask Questions and Raise Concerns?
What if I am Worry about Retaliation?
How are Reports Handled?
What the Consequences of Code Violations?
UPhOLDING INTEGRITY fOR OUR EMPLOYEES 
Respect in the Workplace
Safe Working Conditions
Fair Employment Practices
UPhOLDING INTEGRITY fOR OUR COMPANY 
Protecting The Company Assets
Conflict of Interest
Gifts and Entertainment
UPhOLDING INTEGRITY fOR bUSINESS PARTNERS 
Providing Safe, High Quality Products and Services
Treating Others Fairly
Competing Fairly
Refusing Bribery and Corruption
Anti-Money Laundering
Doing Business Internationally
UPhOLDING INTEGRITY fOR OUR ShAREhOLDERS 
Accurate Books and Records
Dealings in Securities
Insider Trading
Corporate Governance
UPhOLDING INTEGRITY fOR ThE COMMUNITIES 
Social and Environmental Sustainability 
Political Activities
External Communications
hOTLINES
13
21
27
37
45
53
5813
Code of Conduct
INTRODUCTION
01
15
Code of Conduct
whY DO wE hAVE A CODE?
Our Code of Conduct (“Code”) serves as a guide for conducting ourselves ethically and 
in compliance with the law as we perform our work, everywhere, every day. It explains 
the standards we are all expected to follow in living our core values, as well as specific 
laws, regulations and policies that apply to us. 
whO IS REQUIRED TO fOLLOw OUR CODE?
All full-time, part-time and temporary employees have a duty to follow our Code and 
comply with all Company policies and procedures, and with all applicable laws, rules 
and regulations where Golden Agri Resources Ltd and subsidiaries (“GAR”) including 
PT SMART Tbk (“the Company”) conducts business. Our Code also applies to our Board 
of Commissioners and Board of Directors with respect to all activities they engage 
on behalf of the Company. Any consultants, contractors and other business partners 
working on behalf of the Company are expected to uphold the principles of this Code.
By knowing and following our Code, each of us does our part to maintain and further build 
trust with our various stakeholders including our colleagues, customers and business 
partners, shareholders and communities. It is important that we fulfill our commitments 
to these groups and uphold integrity in our interactions at all times.
what is expected of me?
We are all expected to know and adhere to our shared values, our Code and other 
Company policies, procedures and guidelines that apply to our work, as well as all 
applicable laws and regulations regardless of where we operate. We must never ignore 
or try to work around the Code for any reason, even meeting business goals. 
Failure to comply with our Code and the Company policy can have severe consequences 
for both our Company and the people involved. In addition to potentially damaging the 
Company’s reputation, conduct that violates the Code may also violate the law. Violations 
of our Code or the Company policies may lead to disciplinary action, up to and including 
termination of employment. When appropriate, the Company may also refer cases to 
government authorities, which may result in personal liability for individuals involved.
what we expect of our managers and supervisors?
Following our Code and all applicable laws and regulations is the foundation of our 
Company’s continued success and positive reputation. While each of us has a duty to 
follow our Code, managers and supervisors have an even greater responsibility as you 
are the ambassadors for our Code to your team members. You must ensure that the 
Code is communicated to everyone who works for you, and that they receive appropriate 
training on the Code and the policies that impact their jobs.
As a manager, you are expected to create an environment that encourages employees 
to come to you with questions or reports, and address colleague questions and concerns 
appropriately and in a timely manner. If you do not know or are unsure of the answer to 
an employee’s question, you should help to obtain the answer. You must never take any 
form of retaliatory action against any employee for raising a question or concern, and you 
must never tolerate retaliatory actions by others.16
Code of Conduct
whAT LAw DO I NEED TO fOLLOw?
The Company conducts business globally and our employees are citizens of many 
countries. As a result, our business activities are subject to the laws of many different 
jurisdictions. We are each responsible for following all of the laws that apply to our 
businesses. At times, you may encounter a conflict between various laws that apply 
to our business activities. If you encounter a conflict or have any concerns on whether 
something is legal, please contact the Legal Department for guidance.
Assisting a third party to engage in illegal activities can damage our reputation and result 
in serious legal consequences for both you and the Company, including charges that we 
aided or conspired with the third party. In addition to obey the laws that apply directly to 
us, we cannot take actions which we know, or ought to know, will assist a third party in 
violating the law. We are each responsible for recognising signs that indicate third parties 
are engaging in potentially illegal activities and using the Company to assist them. If you 
have any concerns that a third party with whom you are doing business might be using 
the Company to assist it in violating the law, resolve your concerns before proceeding 
with the transaction.
hOw DO I ASK QUESTIONS AND RAISE CONCERNS?
When you raise questions and concerns, it will enable the Company to detect potential 
problems early. This helps minimize potential harm to our Company, our stakeholders and 
our reputation. If you ever have any questions or concerns about the ethics or integrity of 
any aspect of our business, you should address the issue as soon as possible.
The Company is committed to uphold the Company’s values and standards, and has 
put in place arrangements by which employees may, in confidence and without fear of 
retaliation, bring to the Audit Committee’s attention, concerns about possible improprieties 
relating to matters of financial reporting or other matters. You may raise your concerns 
through the hotlines as below:
By e-mail: TellUs@sinarmas-agri.com
Phone:  +62 88 1111 8000 (Indonesia)
 +65 9183 3694 (Singapore)
 +86 139 1706 6334 (China)
 +91 77299 96815 (India)17
Code of Conduct
whAT If I AM wORRIED AbOUT RETALIATION?
It is important that you feel comfortable and safe raising your questions and concerns. 
The Company will not tolerate any form of retaliation against you for making a good faith 
report of actual or potential misconduct. Making a report in “good faith” means your 
report is honest, sincere and complete to the best of your knowledge.
hOw ARE REPORTS hANDLED?
The Company will promptly respond to all reports of misconduct. As employees, we may 
be called upon to assist with investigations of alleged misconduct. We should always 
cooperate and provide complete and accurate information related to investigations. You 
must never interfere with an investigation by altering or destroying related documents 
or evidence.
The Company will keep details of investigations confidential to the maximum extent 
possible, consistent with resolution of the issue and in compliance with applicable laws.
whAT ARE ThE CONSEQUENCES Of CODE VIOLATIONS?
By working for the Company, you have committed to uphold our Code. Anyone who 
violates our Code or related requirements will be subject to disciplinary action, up to and 
including termination. All discipline will be applied fairly, equitably and in accordance with 
local law.18
Code of Conduct
Question Why should I speak up about the misconduct of others that doesn’t 
affect me directly?
Answer Unethical behavior by any employee, supervisor, client, contingent 
worker, supplier or other third party can significantly compromise the trust of our clients, 
shareholders and the public and lead to regulatory or criminal consequences. It is up to 
each of us to protect our reputation by reporting issues immediately. Our reputation and 
success depend on all of us doing the right thing.
If you believe your concern has not been appropriately resolved, or if you would prefer 
to report your concern through other channels, you may report to the hotlines. Your 
concerns may be reported anonymously, if you wish, and will be treated confidentially, 
as appropriate.
For matters involving your employment relationship with Company, you should not use 
the hotlines to report, as those matters should be reported to your supervisor or Human 
Resouces (“HR”) representative or through other reporting mechanisms established 
under the relevant HR policies.
Question If my supervisor asks me to do something that I think is wrong, what 
should I do?
Answer Express your concerns directly to your supervisor. Never do anything 
that you believe is wrong. If you are not able to communicate to your supervisor, you 
may speak with another manager, your HR representative or any of the resources 
mentioned in the Hotlines Page.
Q&A Question 
&Answer19
Code of Conduct
Question If my concerns relate to the conduct of the Chief Executive Officer 
(“CEO”), what should I do?
Answer If your concerns relate to the conduct of the CEO, or any other senior 
executive or a member of the Board of Directors of the Company, you can raise your 
concerns to the Audit Committee.
Question If I raised a concern I have about a colleague’s misconduct, will I be 
treated differently because I spoke up?
Answer You will not be treated differently because you raised a concern about a 
colleague’s misconduct. Supervisors are prohibited from retaliating against anyone who 
makes such a report, and are expected to guard against retaliatory conduct by others. If 
you suspect retaliation by anyone, speak to your manager or another manager you trust 
or HR representative. You may also raise your concern via the hotlines.21
Code of Conduct
UPHOLDING
INTEGRITY
FOR
OUR EMPLOYEES
02
23
Code of Conduct
RESPECT IN ThE wORKPLACE
Diversity
The diversity of our employees is our greatest asset. The Company is firmly committed 
to provide equal opportunity in all aspects of employment and will not tolerate any 
discrimination or harassment based on race, colour of skin, religion, gender, national 
origin or any other class. We are all expected to treat one another fairly and respect the 
unique contributions of others.
Discrimination
We each have a responsibility to do our part to create an environment in which our 
colleagues can grow and succeed. We, and all applicants for employment at the Company, 
will be evaluated based on our qualifications, demonstrated skills and achievements. The 
Company prohibits any form of unlawful discrimination. 
We therefore must not make any employment-related decisions (such as hiring, 
promotion and salary decisions) based on any legally protected characteristics. Such 
factors may vary by local law, but generally include race, colour, religion, gender, 
national origin, disability, age, sexual orientation and marital status, union membership 
and political affiliation. Nevertheless, we understand that certain jobs are more suited for 
male employees than female employees due to the manual labour required in our field 
operations.
harassment and violence
Preventing harassment in the workplace is an important aspect of fostering a respectful 
work environment. It refers to unwelcome conduct related to a person’s legally protected 
characteristics that creates a hostile or abusive work environment. At the Company, we 
will not tolerate: 
•	 Harassment in any form
•	 The use of physical force intended to cause bodily harm
•	 Acts or threats that are intended to intimidate someone or cause them to  
fear bodily harm 
Harassment may be verbal, visual or physical. It may be non-sexual or sexual in nature. 
It may include many types of conduct, such as insults, abusive language, threats, 
intimidation, slurs, offensive jokes or visual displays, or unwelcome touching. Actions or 
words that could be taken as abusive, derogatory, discriminatory, hostile, improper, or 
offensive must be avoided. Behaviour (or lack thereof) that is offensive or unwelcome 
or that unreasonably disrupts another colleague in his/her work amounts to harassment 
is inappropriate and unacceptable. If you witness or learn about harassment, violence 
or threats of violence, you should report it immediately. Managers are responsible for 
maintaining a work environment that is free of violence and unlawful harassment, which 
includes acting promptly to investigate all allegations in accordance with laws and our 
policies. Each of us is responsible for maintaining a work environment free from any kind 
of conduct which intimidates or harasses.24
Code of Conduct
Employee privacy
In the course of business, we may collect, hold or process personal information on 
employees and others in an employment context. We treat such personal information 
with care and take responsibility for protecting it and using it lawfully and properly. While 
the Company respects our privacy, the Company does reserve the right to inspect its 
facilities and property, such as computers, telephone records, lockers, emails, files, 
business documents and workplaces. Unless otherwise provided by applicable law, we 
should not expect privacy when using the Company-provided services or equipment.
SAfE wORKING CONDITIONS
The Company conducts all business activities in a manner that protects the health and 
safety of our employees, along with contractors and visitors at our facilities. We comply 
with all health and safety laws in addition to our own strict health and safety requirements, 
strive to continuously improve our performance, and insist that all work, however urgent, 
be done safely. 
You are obliged to carry out your work in a safe manner, without causing harm to yourself, 
fellow employees, and visitors to our facilities and report any unsafe practices or incident 
immediately to your manager.
The Company managers must provide employees with training, programs and resources 
to do their jobs safely and design and maintain our processes and facilities in a manner 
that ensures safe working conditions. On a regular basis, the Company will also conduct 
Health & Safety Risk Assessment and ensure that the risks identified are sufficiently 
mitigated.
Substance abuse
Drugs and alcohol can impair an individual’s capacity to perform his/her job safely, 
efficiently and with respect for colleagues and customers. The use of such substances 
may result in injury or a threat to the well-being of an individual, colleagues, customers 
or members of the public.
If you report to work under the influence of drugs or alcohol, you threaten the safety and 
health of yourself and others. As employees, we are prohibited from possessing, using 
or working under the influence of alcohol, illegal drugs, and controlled substances or 
misused over-the-counter or prescription drugs in the workplace. Involvement with the 
manufacture, possession, distribution, sale, purchase, or transfer of illegal drugs is strictly 
prohibited.
fAIR EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES
The Company is committed to honoring the rights of our employees, as well as complying 
with all applicable wage and employment laws in all areas of the world where we have 
operations. In addition, the Company expects our business partners to treat their 
employees with dignity and respect, and follow local employment laws. We will never 
knowingly use any suppliers who illegally employ or exploit underage workers or forced 
labor. We do not condone such practices.25
Code of Conduct
Question You witness Sari, your manager, often losing her temper and making 
unprofessional and inappropriate comments to her staff. At first, you don’t say anything 
but couple months later the behavior is still continuing and has gotten worse. What should 
you do?
Answer It’s important that you report the concern so it can be addressed. If you 
feel not comfortable talking to her in this instance since she is the subject of the concern. 
You can contact another member of management or HR representatives. You may also 
report through the hotlines.
Question There is an opening position in another department in my company, 
since it’s match with my career aspiration, I applied for this job. I have a reason to believe 
that I was not selected because I’m a woman. What should I do?
Answer Company requires that employment decisions be made without regard 
to a person’s gender. You may raise your concern through any convenient reporting line 
available immediately
Question Joko sometimes share funny stories and jokes to make work 
environment fun and friendly. One morning, Satya, Joko’s colleagues, received a joke 
from Joko, that made fun of certain ethnic group. What should you do?
Answer Comments or jokes that considered inappropriate and against Company 
policy, will need to be reported to a member of management and/or HR.
Question You are working in the IT Department, your friend asked you for a list 
of all of the Company e-mail addresses. He wants to use the e-mail addresses to promote 
a new business. What should you do?
Answer You should inform and explain to your friend that it is against Company 
policy to share Company e-mail addresses for non-Company related purposes. 
You must decline his request.
Question I found out that a safety guard is broken in my refinery, but we have a 
tight production schedule and it will take time to fix it. What should I do?
Answer The safety of our employees is more important than meeting a tight 
production schedule. You should report the concern immediately for evaluation and 
correction.
Q&A Question 
&Answer27
Code of Conduct
UPHOLDING
INTEGRITY
FOR
OUR COMPANY
0329
Code of Conduct
PROTECTING ThE COMPANY ASSETS
As employees, we should protect the Company assets and ensure their responsible use. 
Theft, loss, damage, unauthorized use and waste have a direct impact on the Company. 
The Company assets include physical property, such as facilities, supplies, equipment, 
inventory, vehicles and the Company funds. The Company assets also include intangible 
assets, such as confidential and proprietary information, intellectual property and 
information systems. You should safeguard the Company assets entrusted to you, use 
them efficiently and protect them from unauthorized use. We must handle the Company 
funds honestly and in accordance with applicable Company policies.
All employees should protect the Company assets and ensure their efficient use. Theft, 
carelessness and waste have a direct impact on the Company profitability. All Company 
assets are to be used for legitimate Company purpose. Any suspected incident of fraud 
or theft should be immediately reported for investigation. Company assets should not be 
used for non-Company business.
Appropriate use of Company technology
The Company provides many of us access to various electronic communications systems, 
including computer and telephone systems, so that we may do our daily work. We have 
a duty to always safeguard these systems and the technologies provided to us, such 
as computers, mobile devices and software. This means we must each do our part to 
prevent damage, harm, loss and unauthorized access to these resources. Be sure to 
follow all security measures and internal controls in place for the resources you use. If 
you need to use a technology resource for personal use, your use should be limited and 
appropriate. Use of any Company resource should never interfere with your job duties.
Remember that electronic messages (such as emails, instant messages and text 
messages) are permanent records of your communications. Electronic communications 
may be altered and forwarded without your permission. For these reasons, take particular 
care when drafting any electronic messages on the Company letterhead or when using 
the Company resources.
It is strictly prohibited to use the Company resources (including email, instant messaging, 
the Internet or Company portal) for activities that are unlawful, unethical or otherwise 
contrary to our Code or the Company policy. These include accessing sexually explicit 
websites, online gambling and betting services and other inappropriate contents.
Social media
You must separate your personal and professional profile on social media. However, 
any statement pertaining to Company matters made in any online forum, including web 
logs or blogs or social networking sites, whether using personal or professional profile, 
are considered to be public statements. You must not make any comment regarding the 
Company, its business, products, services, strategy or practices without prior approval 
from Management. If you participate in blogs or any other online space, even personal 
sites maintained outside of work hours, you must ensure that it is not in conflict with the 
best interests of the Company. 30
Code of Conduct
There are a number of laws around the world that regulate what our Company can and 
cannot say about itself and its products. Therefore, if your position with the Company 
involves posting on social media sites, you must follow applicable policies and guidance 
from the Legal and/or  the Corporate Communications Department.
Confidential information
In the course of employment, you may have access to intellectual property, trade secrets, 
proprietary information and confidential information, which is the exclusive property of 
the Company. You must not copy, reproduce, extract, translate, disclose, publish, or deal 
with confidential information in a manner that is not authorised. You must not directly 
or indirectly communicate the confidential information to any unauthorised person. In 
addition, we must avoid discussing confidential information in places where we can be 
overheard, including restaurants, restrooms, taxis, airplanes, elevators or the Company 
common areas. 
If you encounter legal or regulatory rules that require you to disclose confidential 
information, please contact your direct Supervisor for guidance.
Any staff leaving the employment of the Company are to surrender all confidential 
information in their possession to their manager and if the same cannot be surrendered, 
to destroy such confidential information. They may not retain any copy of any confidential 
information in whatever form for themselves. Former employees are absolutely and 
strictly prohibited from disclosing or using any confidential information for any reason 
whatsoever.
Intellectual assets
Some of the Company’s most valuable assets include our confidential business and 
technical information and other intellectual property like patents, copyrights and 
trademarks. 
To protect the Company’s intellectual assets, never disclose it to anyone outside 
the Company unless you have explicit approval and it is covered by a non-disclosure 
agreement, if appropriate. Even inside of the Company, do not share such information 
unless the person has a business need to know it. Confidentiality continues even after you 
have left the Company. All Company properties in employees possession, records of any 
kind, confidential or not, must be returned/remain in the Company.
To the extent permissible by law, the rights to all intellectual property created with the 
Company materials, on the Company time, at the Company expense or within the scope 
of our duties belong to the Company. Just as we expect others to honor our intellectual 
property rights, we must respect the rights of others, including compliance with licensing 
and other similar agreements.31
Code of Conduct
CONfLICTS Of INTEREST
To maintain the trust of our shareholders, we need to act in the best interests of the 
Company at all times. Decisions related to the Company’s business must always be based 
on the Company’s objectives and priorities, made with proper authority and without a 
conflict of interest in the decision. A conflict of interest arises when our personal interests, 
including those of our family members, friends and associates, could harm our ability to 
make sound, objective decisions on behalf of the Company. We should avoid potential 
conflicts of interest whenever possible because the mere appearance of a conflict may 
cause an employee’s motives to be questioned.
If you are involved in a conflict of interest situation, or suspect that you may be, you 
have a duty to disclose this to your supervisor as soon as possible. You may be asked 
to disclose potential conflicts in writing on an annual basis, but the obligation to disclose 
conflicts of interest that arise exists throughout the year. Additionally, you should follow 
any local processes and procedures for reporting conflicts of interest. When in a position 
to influence a decision and a conflict of interest arises, you should abstain from influencing 
the decision and declare such interests.
Employees must obtain approval from Management before accepting officer or director 
positions with an outside business, including not-for-profit board positions.
It is not feasible to specify all activities that may give rise to a conflict of interest, or the 
appearance of one, in this Code. The following sections reflect some of the more common 
situations in which conflicts may arise.
Outside employment and business affiliations
Each of us is responsible for ensuring that activities outside of the Company does not 
negatively affect work performance or create a conflict of interest. Without prior approval 
from the Management, you shall not have an interest in any organization which has or is 
seeking business dealings with the Company where there is an opportunity for preferential 
treatment, except where the interest comprises securities which are publicly-listed, shall 
not serve, whether for reward or otherwise, as an officer of other organizations, or be in 
any management capacity for or as consultant to, any individual or organization and shall 
not buy, sell or lease any property, facility or equipment from or to the Company or any 
organization doing or seeking business with the Company and shall not undertake any 
part-time or contract work which will, in the opinion of the Company, interfere with or 
affect the performance of his/her duties.32
Code of Conduct
financial interests
Ownership by you or your immediate family member of a financial or other beneficial 
interest in any Company which does business with or is a competitor of the Company is 
prohibited, unless you receive approval in writing from the Management.
Corporate opportunities
In order to make objective business decisions on the Company’s behalf, we must never 
compete with our Company. This means we cannot take for ourselves any business or 
investment opportunities that we discover through our position at the Company or through 
the Company property or information. Specifically, you may not personally speculate in 
agricultural commodities processed by the Company. In addition, you may never help 
anyone else take such business or investment opportunities for personal gain, including 
family members and friends.
GIfTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
Business gifts and entertainment are often used to strengthen business relationships. 
While developing strong working relationships with our customers and business partners 
is important, we must exercise particular caution when offering or accepting business 
courtesies. Exchanging gifts and entertainment can result in conflicts of interest. If not 
handled properly, it may even lead to the appearance of bribery or other improper 
payments. You may not accept or provide any gift, favor or entertainment if it will obligate 
or appear to obligate the recipient. Employees should not accept discounts for personal 
gain from suppliers and service providers if they are not offered to the general public. 
Any activity that might be considered extravagant or embarrass the Company is not 
permitted. Any offer of meals or entertainment which involves travel or overnight lodging 
requires prior approval by your manager. Common sense and good judgment must be 
exercised when giving or accepting business related courtesies to avoid any perception 
of impropriety or a conflict of interest.
During traditional gift-giving seasons, in areas where it is customary to exchange gifts, 
employees may exchange gifts with non-governmental business associations in nominal 
amounts. When giving, extra care should be taken to ensure that the gift is not in cash or 
item easily exchangeable for cash.   Gift within Company’s policy threshold may be given 
to an organization for customary goodwill purpose.  Prior approval should be sought 
from the Management before the exchange or giving of gifts.   All gifts received should 
be declared and handled in accordance to the Company’s policy. However, employees 
should not request or solicit gifts from any business partners. 34
Code of Conduct
Question I am blogger and I often blog about food and fashion, can I blog about 
the quality of food in the factory cafetaria?
Answer You must separate personal and professional profile on social media. If 
you need to make statement pertaining to any Company matters, prior approval must be 
sought from your Management.
Typical confidential information and trade secrets such as:
•	 Non-public financial information
•	 List of employees, customers or vendors
•	 Unpublished price lists
•	 Unauthorized pictures/videos
Question I handle the disbursement of investment funds for plasma plantation 
development. My friend asked me the investment cost of building plasma plantation. 
What should I do?
Answer Data and information regarding disbursements to plasma plantation 
development investments are confidential. You must not inform other people about this 
information. 
Question The caller ID at your desk phone showed an external incoming phone 
number, but the caller identified himself as “Budi”, a financial analyst in the Accounting 
Department, requesting for information regarding a customer’s account for a meeting 
with his boss later that day. What should I do?
Answer You must verify the identity of the caller by either looking up for his 
contact information in the Company’s directory or calling his supervisor. You should call 
him back and ask him to officially submit his request to you via company email. 
If you suspect that the caller maybe a scammer or impostor, you must notify your manager 
and alert the rest of the team of the potential scam to obtain customer information.
Question As a new employee, am I allowed to bring confidential information that 
I developed while working for my previous employer?
Answer No. Doing so would breach this Code. You must protect your past 
employer’s confidential information just as company employees are obligated to protect 
our confidential information. Similarly, if your employment at the Company ends, you 
are prohibited from taking confidential information with you or using or divulging such 
information.
Q&A Question 
&Answer35
Code of Conduct
Question My daughter is graduating from the university with excellent results. 
And I know one of vendors providing service to the Company has a job vacancy with a 
good prospect. Can I get the vendor to hire my daughter?
Answer You are not allowed to influence the vendor to hire your daughter. Hiring 
decisions must be based on the merits of the employment candidate and all candidates 
should proceed through the standard hiring process. Candidates should not be hired in 
exchange for obtaining, maintaining or retaining business.
Question My immediate family members intend to invest in a palm plantation 
business. Am I allowed to do so? 
Answer Both you and your immediate family members are strictly not allowed 
to participate in any business that potentially have business conflict with the Company. 
This could harm our ability to make sound, objective decisions on behalf of the Company. 
We should avoid potential conflicts of interest whenever possible because the mere 
appearance of a conflict may cause an employee’s motives to be questioned.
Question A new vendor is having a meeting discussing a new business opportunity 
with you as a trade marketing director and your team, after a meeting this new vendor 
sent to each of the meeting’s participants a $25 gift card in appreciation for the productive 
meeting. Is it right to keep the gift cards?
Answer No. The giving of a gift card, regardless of its value, can be perceived the 
same as receiving cash. Accepting cash or cash equivalents (gift cards) is prohibited. The 
gift cards should be returned to the vendor with a note indicating our mutual appreciation 
for the ideas exchanged during the meeting and notifying the vendor that the acceptance 
of the gift card would be a violation of our gifts & entertainment policy. Supplier Code of 
Conduct should also be provided to the vendor for future reference.
Question A vendor offers you two tickets to a professional soccer game for you 
and your guest. The vendor will not be attending the event. The value of the tickets is 
$250. Before accepting the tickets, you decide to contact your manager to discuss the 
situation. Am I doing the right thing?
Answer Since the vendor will not be attending the game, it is clear that there is no 
business objective associated with your attendance at the game. Accepting the gift may 
create, or have the appearance of creating, a conflict of interest or undue influence. It is 
right for you to contact your manager to discuss the matter before making a final decision 
on whether to accept the tickets.37
Code of Conduct
UPHOLDING 
INTEGRITY
FOR
BUSINESS 
PARTNERS
04
39
Code of Conduct
PROVIDING SAfE, hIGh QUALITY PRODUCTS AND SERVICES
We are all responsible for preserving our customers’ trust by making certain that our 
products and services are always safe and of high quality. All of our processes, products 
and services will meet, or exceed, all applicable safety and health regulations. Maintaining 
our exceptional quality and safety standards means we must work together to ensure 
that our products meet or exceed legal and regulatory requirements.
TREATING OThERS fAIRLY
Dealing fairly with customers
The Company is committed to treating our customers ethically, fairly and in compliance 
with all applicable laws. Customer agreements reflect the value we place on their business. 
All statements about products and services must be fair, factual and accurate. We must 
never deceive or mislead current or potential customers.
fair treatment of suppliers
We are committed to dealing fairly with all our suppliers. We choose our suppliers based 
on legitimate, business-related criteria, not on personal relationships or interests. This 
includes criteria such as quality of products and services, cost, reliability and experience, 
among others. In addition, we never take unfair advantage of our suppliers through 
manipulation of our position or relationship, concealment of important facts, abuse of 
confidential information, misrepresentation of material facts or any other unfair dealing 
practice. 
Government customers
Many countries place strict legal requirements on companies that do business with the 
government. When selling to, buying from, negotiating with or working with government 
customers, we must carefully comply with these requirements. These rules are often much 
stricter and more complex than those that govern our sales to commercial customers. If 
your work involves government contracts, it is your responsibility to know and follow the 
particular rules that apply to your work. If in doubt, please contact the Legal Department 
for more guidance.
COMPETING fAIRLY
The Company is subject to competition laws in all countries where we do business. We 
must always compete with integrity and follow applicable laws. It is critical to our success 
that we never take actions that could undermine our Company’s reputation for high 
standards of commercial integrity and ethical business conduct.
Sales and marketing
We must always engage in fair and ethical sales and marketing practices. This means we 
emphasize the quality of the Company’s products and services, and never disparage or 
discredit our competitors or their products or services. If you are involved in any oral or 
written statements about competitors, ensure they are fair and factual.40
Code of Conduct
Competition and Antitrust Laws
At the Company, we are encouraged to compete aggressively for business and sales 
opportunities. However, it is just as important that we compete lawfully and with integrity. 
Many of the countries where we do business have enacted competition, or “antitrust,” 
laws that regulate how we can compete in the marketplace. These laws aim to stop unfair 
business practices that restrict competition, ensuring that our customers and the public 
have an opportunity to buy high-quality goods and services at fair market prices.
Competition laws may vary from one country to the next, and we may be subject to more 
than one jurisdiction’s laws at once. It is important that you know your responsibilities 
under applicable competition laws wherever you are operating. At the Company, we are 
expected to recognise situations that may conflict with competition laws. When these 
cases arise, you should seek guidance from the Legal Department before taking further 
action. 
To ensure that you are acting in compliance with competition laws, be especially careful 
when interacting with the Company competitors. In particular, avoid any discussions with 
competitors that could be viewed as an agreement to restrain trade in any way. This is 
true whether the conversation is written, oral or informal. However, when transacting 
business with a competitor to serve the Company’s legitimate commercial needs 
or objectives, agreements with that competitor on the specific terms of a transaction 
are necessary and acceptable. That exception for discussing transactional terms with 
competitors is limited. Contact the Legal Department if you have questions.
Competition laws do not merely govern our interactions with competitors. They also 
prohibit entering into formal or informal agreements with customers, suppliers or other 
business partners that may unfairly restrict competition or participate in other abusive 
behaviour.
Competitor information
It is important for the Company to gather timely information about the industry, including 
information about our competitors, in order to stay competitive. While this practice is 
appropriate and permissible, you may only use information obtained by fair and legal 
methods. For example, you may always review any public information, such as trade 
journals, press releases or the Company websites. You may not obtain non-public 
information by illegal or unethical activities. Similarly, you must never engage a third 
party to obtain competitive information in the same manner.
If you are offered confidential or proprietary information that you believe was obtained 
improperly, you must immediately inform your direct Supervisor41
Code of Conduct
Protection of third-party information
At times, our customers, suppliers and other business partners may share confidential 
information about their operations with the Company. It is our responsibility to use, store 
and carefully safeguard any such information in a manner that complies with all applicable 
laws and/or any applicable agreements. We must take appropriate steps to keep this 
information secure and make sure it is used only for approved business purposes.
REfUSING bRIbERY AND CORRUPTION
We pursue our business objectives with integrity and in compliance with the law, no 
matter where we are operating. We comply with applicable laws in all the countries, in 
which we do business, that are designed to prevent bribery and corruption, including all 
the anti-bribery and corruption law.
ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING
We comply with all laws that prohibit money laundering or financing for illegal or illegitimate 
purposes. This means, in part, that we cannot enter into transactions involving funds 
generated through criminal activities such as fraud, terrorism or drug-dealing. Doing so 
may violate anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism laws
Money laundering occurs when persons or groups attempt to conceal the proceeds of 
illegal activities or try to make the sources of their illicit funds appear legitimate. We 
must ensure the Company is conducting business with reputable customers or business 
partners, for legitimate purposes, with legitimate funds. Therefore, we should be aware of 
“red flags,” such as requests for cash payments or other unusual payment terms. 
Money laundering and anti-terrorism issues can be complicated. If you encounter any 
transaction that does not seem right, you should contact  the Authorities.
DOING bUSINESS INTERNATIONALLY
handling imports and exports
We are careful to follow all rules that regulate our international business activity. Each of 
us involved in the import or export of goods or services should understand and follow the 
laws relating to exports, re-exports or imports.
Economic sanctions and boycotts
As a global corporate citizen, the Company complies with all applicable economic 
sanctions and anti-boycott laws. Economic sanctions are restrictions imposed against 
targeted countries and persons or entities by governments and international organizations. 
Restricted activities may include transfers of assets, monetary payments, provision of 
services, financial dealings, exports and imports, and travel to certain countries. 42
Code of Conduct
Question I’m in the final stage of signing a contract with a customer. Time is 
running short and I need to get the contract signed soon. But I don’t feel right about 
agreeing to product, knowing that the product specifications we’ll supply, does not meet 
them. Even though, I am confident our product will work well and functionally equivalent 
for the customer’s application. What should I do?
Answer It conflicts with our guiding principle of honoring our business obligations, 
which includes being honest with our customers. You’ll need to make sure the correct 
specifications are included even if that means that the contracting process takes a little 
longer. And we must supply product meeting the specifications provided in the contract. 
If we do not, we may be supplying false information or breaching the contract.
Question I was recently at a trade association meeting and overheard one of our 
competitors talking about their pricing strategy. I immediately left the room. 
Was that the right thing to do?
Answer Yes. Contact your direct Supervisor to report the incident and do not 
share any information you may have heard at the meeting. Removing yourself from 
the meeting reduces the risk that someone might think you were trying to fix prices or 
engage in other inappropriate activity.
Question At a supplier conference a counterpart from a competing company 
suggests that the two of you get together for an ‘off-the-record’ lunch to talk about pricing. 
Your counterpart indicates that their margins are way too tight and thinks ours probably 
are too because prices were not increased after the last cost increase from the vendor. 
What should you do?
Answer Discussing pricing with a competitor is inappropriate and may be illegal, 
so you decline the invitation and report the incident to your manager.
Question I have a customer who demanded to alter an invoice. He stated that he 
would no longer do business with us unless I agreed to falsify the invoice. The customer 
wanted the invoice to show a higher price than what was actually paid and to show 
delivery to a different location. What should I do?
Answer Losing a customer with questionable ethics is much better than 
compromising the Company’s integrity. You have to refuse to make the changes because 
it’s a violation to the Code of Conduct.
Q&A Question 
&Answer45
Code of Conduct
UPHOLDING 
INTEGRITY
FOR
OUR 
SHAREHOLDERS
05
47
Code of Conduct
ACCURATE bOOKS AND RECORDS
Accurate accounting practices
Our shareholders rely on us to maintain accurate and complete books and records. 
These documents form the basis for all of our public disclosures and filings, which aim 
to give our shareholders and the public an accurate view of our Company’s operations 
and financial standing. In addition, the Company uses these documents to analyze the 
Company operations, produce financial and governmental reports, and make important 
business decisions. 
We have a duty to ensure that the information we submit in all Company records is 
complete, accurate and understandable. This includes all of the information we provide in 
payroll documents, timecards, travel and expense reports, measurement and performance 
records, customer and supplier records, and design and engineering records. We must 
never make a false representation in the Company documents.
financial disclosures and fraud
Those of us with finance and accounting responsibilities have an added responsibility 
to ensure that the Company’s consolidated financial statements are true and fair. It is 
critical that these documents are accurate and timely. Therefore, if you have related 
responsibilities, you must comply with the legal and regulatory requirements that govern 
these reports, and know and follow the Company’s internal controls that govern the 
same. Remember, inaccurate, incomplete or untimely records or reporting may result in 
legal liability for those involved.
Anyone who engages in financial fraud will be subject to disciplinary action, consistent 
with local law, as well as the potential for civil and criminal liabilities. You must report any 
suspected accounting or auditing irregularities as soon as possible.
Records management
The Company’s records are subject to laws and regulations, such as occupational health 
and safety requirements and accounting standards. The information Company produces 
is considered a business record, regardless of how the information is maintained. 
The business records you work with should be maintained, retained and destroyed in 
accordance with our internal guidelines. If you are aware of any records in your control 
that are related to a legal proceeding or investigation, you must not alter, conceal or 
destroy any relevant documents until you are notified otherwise. If you are in doubt, 
please contact the Legal Department.
Audits and investigations
We have a responsibility to cooperate with external and internal auditors, as well as 
government investigators who are conducting an inspection or review of our Company’s 
products or activities. We may never attempt to interfere with or improperly influence 
their review. Be sure to provide auditors and investigators the information to which 
they are entitled. If you have any questions about what information a given auditor or 
investigator is requesting, consult your supervisor, manager or the Legal Department. 
If a governmental investigation occurs, local management must contact the Legal 
Department as soon as possible before proceeding. 48
Code of Conduct
DEALINGS IN SECURITIES 
The Company complies with the Stock Exchange best practices on dealings in securities, 
and has devised and adopted its own internal compliance code to provide guidance with 
regard to dealings in the Company’s securities by the Company, its Commissioners, 
Directors and officers. Dealings in the Company’s securities are prohibited during the 
period commencing (i) two weeks before announcement of the Company’s first, second 
and third quarter results and (ii) one month before the announcement of the Company’s 
full year results, and ending on the date of the announcement of the results. Such dealings 
in the Company as well as other listed companies’ securities are also prohibited whilst 
in possession of unpublished material price-sensitive information in relation to those 
securities.
INSIDER TRADING
Insider trading is the buying or selling of a Company’s securities based on inside information, 
that is, important information about the Company that the public does not yet know. The 
laws of many countries and our own internal policies prohibit insider trading. These laws 
remind us that confidential Company information is not for personal gain. If you have 
material inside information about the Company, you may not legally trade in the stock of 
the Company and related listed subsidiaries or tell others to trade until a reasonable time 
has passed after the information has been made public. This guidance also applies to 
trading on material inside information of third parties that you might learn in the course of 
your employment at the Company. If you violate these insider trading laws, both you and 
the Company may suffer severe consequences, including large fines and imprisonment. 
In addition, you may be subject to disciplinary action, including termination.
what is material inside information?
Information is considered material if it would influence a reasonable investor to buy, sell 
or hold a stock. Information is considered inside if it has not been made public. It is also 
important to note that material inside information can be either positive or negative. 
Tipping
Insider trading laws also apply to the sharing of material non-public information with 
friends or family. Making recommendations to others about trading is called a tip. Tipping 
is considered a form of insider trading and both the provider and recipient may face 
severe fines or imprisonment.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Company and its subsidiaries remains committed to observing high standards of 
corporate governance, to promote corporate transparency and to enhance shareholder 
value. The Company has complied substantively with the principles and guidelines 
required by Stock Exchange or other Financial Authority through effective self-regulatory 
corporate practices.49
Code of Conduct
Shareholder Rights
The Company recognizes the importance of maintaining transparency and accountability 
to its shareholders. The Company ensures that the Company’s shareholders are treated 
equitably and their rights are protected. The Company is committed to providing 
shareholders with adequate, timely and sufficient information pertaining to the Company’s 
business which should have a material impact on the Company’s share price. 
Communication with Shareholders 
Transparency and communication are the heart of our Investor Relations activities. 
We aim to timely deliver thorough and up-to-date information to the global investing 
community, to support informed investment decisions. The Company does not practice 
selective disclosure of material information. The Company conveys material information 
and its quarterly results through announcements made on Stock Exchange platform, 
and is required to comply with any laws and regulations for listed companies. Results 
and annual reports are announced or issued within the specified/ stipulated period. All 
announcements are posted immediately on the Company’s website, upon release via 
Stock Exchange platform.50
Code of Conduct
Question The year is coming to a close, as the manager of one of the Company’s 
manufacturing facilities, I realized the operation has already exceeded the annual business 
plan. Can I ask the plant controller if the remaining profit for the year can be reported at 
a later date in order to have a head start on the next year?
Answer No. This action is inappropriate and a violation of our accounting 
standards and Code of Conduct. Doing so would cause false and inaccurate information 
to be recorded. All income and expenses must be recorded in the period in which they 
are earned or incurred.
Question As a secretary, I heard a rumor that the Company would be acquiring a 
small publicly traded consumer products company. Can I purchase the stock of the said 
company before the transaction is finalized and made public?
Answer No, you cannot do that. Individuals who obtain non-public information may 
not purchase or sell securities until such time after public disclosure of the information as 
required under the applicable laws of the country concerned.
Q&A Question 
&Answer53
Code of Conduct
UPHOLDING 
INTEGRITY
FOR
THE COMMUNITIES
06
55
Code of Conduct
SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINAbILITY
The Company are committed to achieving the highest standards of quality and integrity, 
embedding sustainability across all our operations, and empowering society and 
community. We are adopting enhanced sustainability policy to assist us in achieving 
these goals throughout our entire supply chain. Furthermore, we are fully committed 
to following the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) and Indonesia Sustainable 
Palm Oil (ISPO) Principles and Criteria for the production of sustainable palm oil. 
Our principle commitments 
The Company ensure its upstream and downstream palm oil operations are deforestation-
free, traceable and bring benefits to the people and communities where we operate. Core 
areas are:
•	 Environment Management
•	 Social and Community Engagement
•	 Work Environment and Industrial Relations
•	 Marketplace and Supply Chain
(For more detail please refer to GAR Social and Environmental Policy) 
POLITICAL ACTIVITIES
Some of us choose to support the well-being of our communities by participating in the 
political activities of our choice. However, we may only participate in such activities on 
our own time and at our own expense. We may never use the Company’s property or 
resources for personal political activities. In addition, we should never engage in any 
political activities on the Company’s behalf, unless authorised. Never attempt to coerce a 
coworker, especially one who reports to you, to support your particular causes.
EXTERNAL COMMUNICATIONS
Media requests for interviews or information
Our communications with the public must present a complete, accurate and truthful 
picture of our business. Only designated company representatives may share information 
and news about the Company. All media requests for information and interviews should 
be referred to the Corporate Communications Department.
Inquiries from investors
News that may influence investors or have an impact on the securities markets may 
only be released though designated company representatives. If an investor, securities 
analyst or other financial contact requests information from you, even if the request is 
informal, please refer them to the Investor Relations Department..56
Code of Conduct
Question I have a good friend who is running for political office and has asked if 
I would endorse him at a rally being held outside of business hours. Is that a problem?
Answer No. Just be sure to make it clear that your endorsement is your own 
personal action and that you are not speaking on behalf of the Company.
Question A local newspaper reporter contacted me about the Company’s plans 
for expansion in the area. How should I respond?
Answer Unless you have been given the authority to speak about this topic on 
behalf of the Company, you should refer the reporter to  the Corporate Communications 
Department.
Question Some colleagues from other companies asked about the Company’s 
involvement in forest fires. How should I respond?
Answer You should not make any comment on the company’s involvement.  
You should refer any question to the Corporate Communications Department.
Q&A Question 
&Answer58
Code of Conduct
Hotlines
By e-mail:
T ellUs@sinarmas-agri.com
Phone:
+62 - 88 - 1111 - 8000 (Indonesia)
+65 - 9183 - 3694 (Singapore)
+86 - 139 - 1706 - 6334 (China)
+91 - 77299 - 96815 (India)