SAUDI GROUND SERVICES
CODE OF CONDUCT
CONTENTS  ( 1 of 2 ) 
 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO 
 INTRODUCTION 
 Purpose of the Code of Conduct 
 Our Shared Responsibilities 
 Leading with Integrity 
 SGS VISION & VALUES 
 SGS Vision 
 SGS Values 
 COMPLIANCE WITH LEGAL REQUIREMENTS 
 BOOKS & RECORDS 
 Financial Statements & Accounts / Maintenance of Documents 
          Reporting Controls 
 Internal Controls 
 BEHAVIOR IN THE WORKPLACE 
 Harassment 
 Discrimination 
 Workplace Violence 
 Substance Abuse 
 STANDARDS OF BUSINESS CONDUCT 
 Confidentiality 
 Data Privacy 
 Communicating with the Public About SGS 
 Dress Code & Grooming 
 Anti-Corruption 
 CONFLICT OF INTEREST 
 Personal Relationships 
 Gifts & Entertainment 
 Outside Engagements 
 Abuse of Position 
 Insider Trading 
5
7
7
8
9
10
10
10
11
13
13
15
16
19
19
20
21
22
23
23
25
26
27
28
31
31
32
34
35
36
1. 
2. 
2.1 
2.2 
2.3 
3. 
3.1 
3.2 
4. 
5. 
5.1 
5.2 
5.3 
6. 
6.1 
6.2 
6.3 
6.4 
7.  
7.1  
7. 2  
7 .3 
7. 4  
7. 5  
8. 
8.1 
8.2 
8.3 
8.4 
8.5 CONTENTS  ( 2 of 2 ) 
 CUSTOMERS, SUPPLIERS & COMPETITORS 
 DEALING WITH PASSENGERS AND GUESTS 
 DEALING WITH OTHER AIRPORT STAFF 
(CUSTOMS, IMMIGRATION, SECURITY ETC.)            
 PROTECTING COMPANY INTERESTS & ASSETS 
 Improper Use of Company Assets 
 Physical Property 
 Intellectual Property 
 Using Company Computer Systems 
 COMMITMENT TO SAFETY, HEALTH & ENVIRONMENT 
 Workplace Safety & Health 
 Environment 
 BREACH OF SGS CODE OF CONDUCT 
 Reporting Misconduct & Code Violations 
 How Do I Raise Concerns? 
 What Happens Next? 
 Whistle Blowing 
 Principle of Non-Retaliation 
 Disciplinary Action 
 
39
40
43
45
45
45
47
47
49
49
50
52
52
53
53
54
55
55
9.  
10. 
11. 
12. 
12.1 
12.2 
12.3 
12.4 
13. 
13.1 
13.2 
14. 
14.1 
14.2 
14.3 
14.4 
14.5 
14.6 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO
In our dynamic industry and operating environment, one thing remains constant 
within SGS — our commitment to safety, integrity and ethical business 
practices. This commitment is more important now than ever before, as 
business practices are increasingly scrutinized and the regulation within our 
industry intensifies.
 
Our Company’s success depends on ensuring that we continue to hold 
ourselves to the highest ethical standards. Saudi Ground Services Code of 
Conduct helps us to do this.
 
Our Code of Conduct helps us understand the ethical and legal guidelines that 
direct our business and operating activities; which will be periodically updated to 
remain timely and relevant. It is not a substitute for good judgment, nor does it 
cover every situation that you may encounter or every law that applies to our 
business. It does however, outline the basic legal guidelines that we must follow 
and the general ethical principles that will help each of us make the right 
decisions when performing our job for SGS.
 
The principles of the Code of Conduct apply to everyone at SGS, regardless of 
job, function or seniority. Each of us must do our part to prevent or correct 
violations. Continuing to conduct our business in a safe and ethical manner will 
help ensure long-term success for our people, our company, our customers and 
our shareholders. You have my personal commitment that I will do all I can to 
ensure that the Code of Conduct is observed and honored.
 
Thank you for your continued dedication and commitment to our culture of 
safety, integrity and ethical behavior.
 
Raed H. Al-Idrissi
Chief Executive OfficerINTRODUCTION
2.1 Purpose of the Code of Conduct
At Saudi Ground Services (SGS), we are committed to doing the right thing, 
each and every time. We believe our commitment to integrity differentiates us, 
and will continue to serve our reputation, performance and growth in the years 
ahead. This Code of Conduct (CoC) addresses our company’s professional, 
ethical, financial and social values. The CoC sets forth what is expected of all 
SGS employees. The CoC also represents our commitment to our customers, 
shareholders, partners and the communities in which we live and work. 
Our Vision and (Core) Values are the foundation for the CoC. The following 
principles set forth the guidelines of behavior that we must follow:
Ethical behavior is the basis for everything we do 
SGS is committed to treating its employees fairly, and providing each 
employee with the opportunity for advancement and growth
Teamwork, mutual respect, trust, and open communication are the foundations 
of SGS’s culture
SGS strives to be a responsible corporate citizen in the communities in which 
we operate
Meeting customers’ expectations and agreed service levels is of utmost 
importance
We are committed to compliance with the law and the rules and regulations 
defined by our regulator; the General Authority of Civil Aviation (GACA)
▪
▪
▪
▪
▪
▪
2.2 Our Shared Responsibilities
The CoC applies to all SGS employees. We are all expected to read, understand 
and comply with the Code and all Company policies. We also must conduct 
business in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations. If we find 
ourselves in a situation where customary condu  ct is at odds with the Code, 
Company policy and/or local laws or regulations, we must comply with the 
more stringent standard. If you’re unsure which rule to follow, seek guidance 
from Management, Human Resources or the Compliance team.
If you know about or suspect a violation of the CoC, Company policy or an 
applicable law or regulation, you owe it to your colleagues and our Company to 
report your concerns to your Manager, your Business Unit or Function Head, 
and/or a member of the Compliance team.
The CoC is meant to provide guidance regarding these principles. However, one 
document cannot possibly address every law, rule, policy or scenario we may 
encounter in our daily work. Nor is the CoC a substitute for exercising common 
sense and good judgment or seeking guidance when we need it. To help you 
determine whether a particular action is appropriate, ask yourself the 
following questions:
If you have any questions about the CoC or any doubts about a particular 
course of action, you should consult with Management, Human Resources or 
the Compliance team. 
Would my action comply with the spirit and purpose of SGS’s policies?
Would I feel comfortable doing this, or would it violate my personal standard of 
conduct?
Is this action honest in all respects?
How might this action affect or be perceived by others?
Would this action embarrass me or SGS if it became known to my  customers, 
colleagues, family or friends?
▪
▪
 
▪
▪
▪
2.3 Leading with Integrity
Our Leadership and Management serve as resources and role models for 
proper business conduct. For that reason, they have additional responsibilities 
when it comes to upholding the CoC. They are expected to promote a positive 
working environment where people are treated with dignity and respect and 
feel comfortable raising concerns. 
Leadership and Management must also make 
an effort to create a culture of compliance. This can be done, in part, by:
Acting as role models for CoC compliance
Fostering an environment that encourages open discussion about legal and 
ethical concerns
Recognizing employees who exhibit exemplary ethical behaviors
Vigilantly preventing and detecting violations of CoC, company policy or the 
law
Appropriately responding to inquiries about the CoC
Immediately notifying the Compliance team of CoC related violations (or 
suspected CoC violations) reported to them
Ensuring CoC training is completed in a timely manner by all employees within 
their hierarchy and supervision
Consider an employee’s commitment to ethical conduct during the ITQAN 
performance evaluation process
▪
▪
▪
▪
▪
▪
▪
▪
SGS VISION & 
VALUES
Vision
To enable a seamless and sustainable mobility ecosystem, through integrated solutions 
and a customer-centric mindset."
3.1
3.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
Values
By acting according to our Values we will deliver a superior return to our shareholders; the 
product of inspired customer loyalty, industry leadership, and the ability to retain, attract 
and engage the best talent.
 
Is the wellbeing of customers and staff, 
ensuring the highest standards of 
maintenance and security measures at 
all times.
Is our commitment to always deliver 
excellent quality in all services and 
maintaining integrity with customers and 
employees.
Is the responsible business practices 
that  actively add value to the business 
model, the wider community and the 
environment. Generate economic growth 
that bene/uniFB01ts society in support of a 
more inclusive and ecofriendly future. 
SAFETY
EXCELLENCE
SUSTAINABILITY
INNOVATION
INTEGRITY
ACCOUNTABILITY 
CITIZENSHIP
Is to ensure that all interactions with any 
stakeholder represents the values of 
both SGS and the Kingdom of Saudi 
Arabia.
Is our systematic approach to planning 
and implementing a constant 
improvement process.
Is our representation of the Kingdom and 
contributing to upholding a positive 
image to ful/uniFB01ll vision 2030.
Is leading the market in technology and 
constantly investing into new ways to 
improve and diversify the service 
offerings.
The CoC helps us to understand the extensive variety of ethical and legal 
requirements that impact, direct and apply to our business. The CoC is not a 
substitute for good judgment. It does however, outline basic legal guidelines we 
must follow and the general ethical principles that will help each of us make the 
right decisions when performing our duties.
What to do?
COMPLIANCE WITH 
LEGAL REQUIREMENTS
Do adhere to all applicable legal requirements at all times in any transactions 
conducted by any departments/functions
Do understand what legal requirements apply to your work by using 
appropriate resources, including appropriate SGS Legal person nel
Do understand and apply all security and safety regulations, while using any 
tools or machines as per the manuals and company guidelines
Do follow the company’s commercial guidelines and standers in all 
internal/external communications with customers or potential customers
If there are conflicting legal requirements in different jurisdictions, do consult 
with the Company Legal department
Do follow the legal advice provided by SGS Legal department
Do address and resolve, in a timely manner, any legal compliance issues that 
have been identified
Do always present SGS services in a manner consistent with its Core Values
Do report anyone who genuinely appears to violate any of SGS policies or legal 
regulations as described in the “How Do I Report Violations?” section of this 
document
Do not discuss or share any confidential documents or information that may 
lead to a conflict of interest
Do not negotiate with any current or potential customers, providers or suppliers 
without formal approval or without following the commercial departments 
standards
Never induce a third party to breach an existing agreement
Never act in a manner that could be seen as an attempt to exclude present or 
potential competitors or to control market prices
What not to do?
5.1 Financial Statements & Accounts / Maintenance 
of Documents
There is no place within SGS for false documents or records. We must always 
ensure our accounting and financial records meet the highest standards of 
accuracy and completeness. As a public listed business/entity it is of utmost 
importance that the financial information reported on earnings, cash flows, 
financial position and the relevant notes to the financial statement are at all 
times reported accurate, complete and transparent as well as comply to both 
statutory and regulatory requirements.
We must report all financial transactions accurately, completely, fairly, and in a 
timely manner. We also must ensure that the data we provide for the preparation 
of financial statements, regulatory reports and publicly-filed documents are 
always in compliance with the acceptable financial reporting standards and 
company's internal control procedures. 
BOOKS & RECORDSWhat to do?
Do escalate any timely and important information that impacts the 
company or business units to EVP Finance/Finance Director
If there are questions about the accounting or financial reporting of an item, 
do contact the Chief Financial Officer/ Director
Do maintain financial statements and records in accordance with statutory 
and regulatory requirements and ensure that they are prepared and 
complied in accordance with the accepted financial reporting standards and 
framework
Do ensure the completeness, accurate and timely recording of assets, 
liabilities, expenses and revenues in accordance with the accepted financial 
reporting standards and framework
Do ensure that any false or malpractices are communicated in the proper 
channel as stipulated in company policies
What Not to do?
Do not delay or postpone recording of any transactions that are relevant to 
that period
Do not intentionally or unintentionally record any incorrect, incomplete or 
misleading information
5.2 Reporting Controls
Disclosure controls are a variety of systems and/or processes that ensures 
the availability of the company’s important information to the right people 
at the right time. 
SGS requires every department of the business to maintain reporting 
controls on their data to provide adequate assurance that significant 
information is reported to the Finance Director in order to easily identify and 
address any issues related to the business frequent reports/dashboards 
incorrect information.
What to do?
Do ensure that any incorrect information, suspected fraud, unethical
conduct, or business irregularities related to SGS business has been
reported to Internal Audit Management
 
Do contact the Finance Business Partner for assistance or If there are 
questions about accounting or financial reporting
Do report any concerns regarding false or deliberately incorrect 
documentation of any information; all and any reports and/or allegations will 
be treated with the strictest of confidence
5.3 Internal Controls
Internal Controls are systems and processes that combine policies, 
authorizations and procedures with proper accounting and management 
tracking. This reporting is designed to ensure that business operations are 
properly managed. 
SGS has in place a set of internal controls that provides reasonable 
assurance that:
Transactions are properly authorized and accurately recorded based on the 
policies and procedures manuals
Company assets are adequately safeguarded
Financial and management reporting is reliable and accurate, and reflects 
actual business activity
Activities comply with applicable legal requirements; and
Business operations are effective and efficient
Creating and complying with strong and effective internal control systems 
is, ultimately, the responsibility of each employee with respect to his/her 
role or level. 
What to do?
Do familiarize yourself with the internal controls processes applicable to 
your Business Unit/Function and area of work
Do regularly assess your systems and processes for weaknesses, and make 
or suggest corrections to them if a significant weakness is identified
When requested, do cooperate fully with SGS Internal Controls personnel, 
as well as with the Company’s independent auditors
Do report any concerns regarding false or deliberately incorrect 
documentation of any information in the company’s systems through 
Internal Audit; all and any reports and/or allegations will be treated with the 
strictest of confidence
▪
▪
▪
▪
▪
Scenario 1
Q
Why does SGS have to provide and ensure correct 
information or correct Financial Reports are 
reported to its shareholders? 
A
As per article 89- Corporate Governance 
‘’Disclosure to the shareholders and investors 
should be made without discrimination in a clear, 
correct and non-misleading manner, and in a 
timely, regular and accurate manner in order to 
enable shareholders and other Stakeholders to 
exercise their rights to the fullest extent’’.
Scenario 2
Q
Nora is always leaving her password on a sticky 
note under the keyboard to allow her co-workers 
to log in to her business account in an emergency 
when she is out of the office; Nora’s Manager 
also shares his password with his team so he can 
delegate tasks to them. Are these practices 
acceptable? 
A
Password sharing is a significant and serious 
security threat to any business. These kind of 
practices are a breach of SGS’s CoC and put our 
Company at serious and unnecessary risk. 
6.1 Harassment
To enable a positive work environment, we must ensure it is free from 
harassment. ‘Harassment’ includes offensive behavior that negatively 
impacts another’s work environment or behavior that has the effect of 
creating an offensive, intimidating or hostile work environment. 
Conduct will be considered harassment regardless of whether it’s done 
physically or verbally, whether it’s done in person or by other means (such as 
harassing messages sent via text, WhatsApp, email, social media etc.), and 
whether it’s sexual in nature or otherwise inappropriate. Potentially offensive 
behavior includes unwelcome sexual advances or remarks, slurs, 
inappropriate jokes or disparaging comments (e.g. about subjects such as 
race, religion or ethnicity). 
Scenario 1
Q
Abdulrahman is a Passenger Services Supervisor 
who consistently comments on Amal’s (a 
Passenger Services Agent) dress and makeup. 
What should she do?   
A
Amal should report Abdulrahman’s behavior to 
HR immediately. HR will act promptly and 
thoroughly investigate the allegations; after 
which appropriate action will be taken (in 
accordance with policy).
BEHAVIOR IN THE 
WORKPLACE 6.2 Discrimination
SGS maintains a genuine commitment to diversity and equal employment 
opportunity (while ensuring Labor Law compliance); recognizing that a mix of 
backgrounds, opinions and talent serves to enrich our organization and 
achieve success. Within SGS, employment decisions (including recruiting, 
hiring, training, salary and promotion) are therefore based on job-related 
suitability and qualifications and without regard to race, color, gender, age, 
national origin (unless nationality is a legal job requirement), religion, marital 
status, disability, or other non-job-related personal characteristic.
What to do?
Do report immediately if you feel you are being harassed or discriminated 
against
Do report immediately if you know or suspect that others are being 
harassed or discriminated against
Do report any possible harassment/discrimination cases; whether 
observed/witnessed or personally involved, through HR; all and any reports 
and/or allegations will be treated with the strictest of confidence
What not to do?
Do not engage in activities or behave in a way that may constitute 
discrimination or harassment
Should someone express discomfort resulting from your behavior and/or 
actions, do not continue with the same behavior and/or actions (i.e. change 
behavior)
6.3 Workplace Violence
SGS’s commitment to providing a safe work environment means we must 
not engage in or tolerate any form of violence. ‘Violence’ includes threats or 
acts of violence, intimidation of others or attempts to instill fear in others 
(against each other, or against third party customers, vendors, service 
providers etc.).
What to do?
Do report any possible workplace violence whether you witnessed a case or 
if you faced one, through the HR and/or Internal Audit team(s); all and any 
reports and/or allegations will be treated with the strict confidentiality
If you are a Manager and possible workplace violence is reported to you, do 
take steps, first to protect the people or property that has been allegedly 
threatened and, then, to ensure the allegation is investigated and, if it is 
found to be substantiated, to ensure the behavior is addressed
What not to do?
Do not engage in workplace violence of any type (including threats)
6.4 Substance Abuse
Illegal drugs and alcohol are prohibited in Saudi Arabia. For this reason, and 
because of the effect drugs/alcohol has on judgment and how this negatively 
impacts job performance and safety, SGS maintains a strict zero tolerance 
policy towards any substance abuse (whether the employee is found to be 
under the influence of alcohol or drugs in or outside of the workplace). This 
includes improperly used prescription medication that could diminish, or even 
raise questions concerning our ability to perform at our best.
SGS has the right to demand the medical examination of any Employee who is 
suspected of using prohibited drugs; and also has the right to select any staff 
for a random medical exam. There is no detrimental impact of being selected 
for a random medical exam. 
Employees found to be under the influence of alcohol or drugs or any 
substance abuse during work hours will be terminated in accordance with the 
company policy.
What to do?
Do disclose to your manager or designated medical personnel if you are taking 
any substance that will affect your ability to perform your job, even if you are 
using the substance legally (i.e. certain drugs, even when used legally, can 
impair your ability to drive or operate heavy machinery)
Do report any possible substance abuse cases whether you witnessed a case
or if you faced one, through HR and/or Internal Audit Team; all and any reports 
or allegations will be treated with strict confidentiality
What Not to do?
Do not work while under the influence of alcohol, illegal drugs or legal drugs 
used in an illegal manner
Do not possess illegal drugs, or any drugs you do not have the legal right to 
possess, while on SGS property or while working
Do not engage in the sale or distribution of illegal drugs, or legal drugs in an 
illegal manner, on or off SGS property, whether you are working or not
Do not engage in off-work use of alcohol or drugs in a way that adversely 
affects your ability to perform your job
7 .1 Confidentiality
During the course of our work in SGS, we may learn confidential information about 
our Company that is not known to the general public, shareholders, our customers, 
our vendors, or competitors. Some of this information may be unpublished 
information and/or trade secrets. ‘Trade secrets’ is data that give our Company a 
competitive or economic advantage over our competitors.
Common examples include:
Confidential information relating to existing/potential Customer
Unpublished goals, forecasts and/or financial information
Terms, discount rates or fees/prices offered to particular customers
Documents and processes explicitly marked as confidential
Marketing or strategic plans
▪
▪
▪
▪
▪
STANDARDS OF 
BUSINESS CONDUCT 6.4 Substance Abuse
Illegal drugs and alcohol are prohibited in Saudi Arabia. For this reason, and 
because of the effect drugs/alcohol has on judgment and how this negatively 
impacts job performance and safety, SGS maintains a strict zero tolerance 
policy towards any substance abuse (whether the employee is found to be 
under the influence of alcohol or drugs in or outside of the workplace). This 
includes improperly used prescription medication that could diminish, or even 
raise questions concerning our ability to perform at our best.
SGS has the right to demand the medical examination of any Employee who is 
suspected of using prohibited drugs; and also has the right to select any staff 
for a random medical exam. There is no detrimental impact of being selected 
for a random medical exam. 
Employees found to be under the influence of alcohol or drugs or any 
substance abuse during work hours will be terminated in accordance with the 
company policy.
What to do?
Do disclose to your manager or designated medical personnel if you are taking 
any substance that will affect your ability to perform your job, even if you are 
using the substance legally (i.e. certain drugs, even when used legally, can 
impair your ability to drive or operate heavy machinery)
Do report any possible substance abuse cases whether you witnessed a case
or if you faced one, through HR and/or Internal Audit Team; all and any reports 
or allegations will be treated with strict confidentiality
What Not to do?
Do not work while under the influence of alcohol, illegal drugs or legal drugs 
used in an illegal manner
Do not possess illegal drugs, or any drugs you do not have the legal right to 
possess, while on SGS property or while working
Do not engage in the sale or distribution of illegal drugs, or legal drugs in an 
illegal manner, on or off SGS property, whether you are working or not
Do not engage in off-work use of alcohol or drugs in a way that adversely 
affects your ability to perform your job
What to Do?
Do ensure that you don’t disclose any confidential information or trade secrets 
outside our Company without obtaining proper approval
In any work process or procedure, do acquire information in a legal, ethical and 
responsible manner
If your employment ended in SGS, do ensure that when you leave our Company, 
to return any and all copies of materials (hard and soft copies) containing SGS 
confidential information or trade secrets in your possession
If confidential information about a customer is deliberately or inadvertently 
disclosed to you, 
Do discuss the issue with the Internal Audit team
Do ensure reporting any possible leakage of confidential information whether 
you witnessed a case or if you faced one, to the Internal Audit team; through the 
below channels (any reports and/or allegations are always treated with the 
strictest of confidence)
Internal Audit Hotline: IAHotline@saudiags.com
Reporting through the Company’s website
What Not to Do?
Do not discuss confidential information or trade secrets in places where you can 
be overheard; such as taxis, elevators, cafeterias and break-rooms, or restaurants
Do not communicate or transmit confidential information or trade secrets by 
non-secure methods, such as cell phones, non-secure email etc.
Do not pressure anyone to breach a confidentiality agreement, such as by asking 
a colleague to reveal confidential information about a previous employer
Do not attempt to gather information about our competitors through deceptive 
or misleading actions
Do not disclose confidential information to anyone outside of our company
▪
▪
7 .2 Data Privacy
In SGS, we have worked hard to acquire our valuable assets, both physical and 
intangible. Examples of intangible assets include confidential information, like 
business plans, intellectual property, proposals, technical innovations, designs, 
inventions, patents, financial information, customer information and other 
information we produce as part of our work for SGS.
What to Do? 
Never reveal our company’s confidential information to any outside parties unless 
you are properly authorized or legally required to do so
When you have a business need to disclose such information to a colleague or third 
party, do ensure that the appropriate confidentiality agreement is in place
Do take steps to properly secure such data at all times
In addition, to protecting the confidential information of SGS, we must also afford 
this same respect to the confidential information of our employees, customers, 
partners and other third parties
Do immediately report any suspect act or any unauthorized user or disclosure of 
confidential information through the Internal Audit team; all and any reports 
and/or allegations will be treated with the strictest of confidence
What Not to Do?
Do not disclose information to colleagues who do not have a legitimate business 
need to know it. Remember, every employee has an obligation to protect 
confidential company information even after employment with SGS ends
Do not disclose any information to the company's shareholders, related to future 
financial statements/reports and the exact date of publishing it on Tadawul 
website
Do not share or give any access to current or former employee records — such as
payroll/salary, GOSI, benefits and HR files — without proper authority
7 .3 Communicating with the Public About SGS
To protect our Company’s information and ensure it is released to the public 
accurately and consistently, only designated spokespersons may communicate 
with the public on behalf of SGS.
What to Do?
If you receive any request from the media for comment of any kind about our 
Company, do refer it to the Corporate Communications team; only members of the 
Corporate Communications team, or individuals they designate, are authorized to 
represent or publicly discuss our Company.
What Not to Do?
Do not post any information about or participate in conversations regarding our 
Company on external websites—including blogs, discussion boards, social media 
sites or any other publicly available online resources—without prior approval from 
the Corporate Communications team.
Do not intentionally disseminate false or misleading information (through digital 
and/or social media etc.); exercise proper care to avoid doing so unintentionally, 
and report any such act promptly
Do not share any information, data or documents related to flights or airport 
services by any means and publish them on social media without obtaining a 
permit and prior approval
Do not take any photos or video in any of SGS premises and/or any airport or 
station without an official permit
 7 .4 Dress Code & Grooming
The majority of SGS employees interact and connect with either customers, 
travelers, vendors and/or service partners. Therefore, our appearance impacts the 
image and perceptions of SGS and Saudi Arabia. For this reason, uniform, dress code 
and grooming standards are appropriately defined and must be adhered to.
Uniforms
Where required, SGS will provide certain employees (male and female) with uniforms 
for use during working hours. This is done for reasons of safety, uniformity and 
professional appearance, and protection of the employee’s personal clothing. 
Uniforms are the only clothes to be worn at work for staff located within operations 
areas. It is expected that employees keep them in good condition and utilize them 
properly. Employees who willfully or through negligence lose or damage their 
uniforms will be provided with replacement uniforms by SGS at their own expense.
What to Do?
The company’s dress code and grooming expectations, irrespective of gender or 
nationality, are as follows:
Hair – clean, neatly trimmed and well groomed
Hygiene – a high level of personal hygiene is required at all times and considered a must
All non-uniform Saudi male Employees may elect to wear either Saudi national dress (Ghotra 
and Thobe) or smart business casual attire
All non-uniform non-Saudi male employees are expected to where smart business casual in 
non-operational areas/locations of work
All female Employees are required to dress appropriately in respect of cultural values such as 
wearing the ‘Abaya’ and headscarf during work hours; jewelry should be kept to a discrete 
minimum
The official company ID/access badge must be worn/carried at all times during the working 
hours
Business shoes must be clean and in good condition; low-heel formal closed toe shoes, 
appropriate for the work requirements, clean dark socks, with laces tied at all times
Employees travelling outside KSA in a formal SGS capacity should ensure that they are 
dressed in accordance to the standards of business professionalism in the country being 
visited7 .5 Anti-Corruption
SGS is the ‘face of the nation’; and we are very proud of the work we do. We 
believe that our ability to continue to foster good working relationships with 
our customers, our regulator, and 3rd parties we work alongside depends on 
acting ethically in all our business dealings. This means we never give, offer or 
accept improper payments in any form. 
Anti-corruption/bribery laws are complex, and the consequences for violating 
these laws are severe. Anti-corruption/bribery laws strictly prohibit the giving, 
receiving, offering or soliciting of bribes, kickbacks or other improper payments 
to public officials. 
A ‘bribe’ is anything of value given in an attempt to influence an official’s 
actions or decisions, obtain or retain business, or acquire any sort of improper 
advantage.
What to Do?
Do immediately report any possible bribery cases, whether you witnessed a 
case or if you faced one, through the Internal Audit team; all and any reports 
and/or allegations will be treated with the strictest of confidence.
What Not to Do?
Do not accept or supply any acts of ‘commercial bribery’ from/to our 
customers, suppliers or anyone working on their behalf with the intent of 
obtaining or retaining business
Do not accept a ‘kickback’; which is the return of a sum already paid (or due to 
be paid) as a reward for making or fostering business arrangements
Do not give anything of value, even something you think is nominal, to a 
government official, customer, or supplier (or anyone working on their behalf)Scenario 1
Scenario 2
Q
Is it possible to accept gifts from a shareholder 
or a customer? And why?
A
No, as this will be a breach to article 49 – 
Corporate Governance issued by the CMA , which 
stated that, ‘’ No member of the Board or Senior 
Executives may accept gifts from any person 
who has entered into commercial transactions 
with the Company if such acceptance of gifts 
may lead to a conflicts of interest’’.
Q
During a tender process, one of the bidders 
offers SAR 100,000 to Abdullah for information 
about the lowest bid submitted by the other 
bidders. Should Abdullah accept the payment?
A
No, this is considered a bribe; all cases of bribery 
related to SGS and its personnel must be 
reported to Internal Audit. Cases should be 
reported whether the bribe (payment) is 
accepted or rejected by the employee(s).Q
When Mona travels on business she often meets 
her brother; who happens to live in the same area 
she travels to. When they meet and catch up they 
typically have a meal at a restaurant; Mona 
claims both his and her own meal as a business 
travel expenses. Is Mona right or wrong to claim 
her brothers meal as a business expense?
A
Mona is wrong – and making this claim is not 
acceptable. Her brother’s meal is not a business 
expense. Mona has the responsibility to be 
honest and accurate in filing all and any expense 
reports.  
Scenario 3
Scenario 4
Q
A
Q
A supplier offers a commission to Mohammed in 
exchange for securing a long-term agreement. 
A vendor donates SAR 100,000 to a charity 
project that Saad is involved in at the same time 
as the vendor bids for a contract with SGS.
Could these SGS employees accept the 
payments? 
A
No, these cases are both considered to be bribes; 
all cases of bribery related to SGS and its 
personnel must be reported to Internal Audit. 
Cases should be reported whether the bribe 
(payment) is accepted or rejected by the 
employee(s).
Q
A
Scenario 4
Q
A
Q
A
8.1 Personal Relationships
Managing or Supervising anyone with whom you have a family or intimate 
relationship could give rise to the appearance of favoritism. Therefore, we 
should nev  er be in a position where a personal relationship is also a 
reporting relationship. 
“Family member” is defined as one of the following: relationships by 
blood—parent, child, grandparent, grandchild, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, 
nephew, niece and first cousin; and relationships by marriage—husband, 
wife, step-parent, step-brother, step-sister, step-child, brother-in-law, 
sister-in-law, father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, uncle, 
aunt, nephew, niece.
What to Do?
Do disclose and declare If you find yourself in a position to supervise or
otherwise make employment decisions regarding family or partner, through 
the HR team; all and any reports and/or allegations will be treated with 
strict confidence
What Not to Do?
Do not work directly with or manage anyone that falls under the stated 
categories/relationships
CONFLICTS OF 
INTEREST8.2 Gifts & Entertainment
Within SGS we must not solicit, accept or give gifts that may influence 
business decisions. Our customers, suppliers, and the public at-large should 
know that our employees’ judgment is not for sale. We must therefore be 
very cautious when giving gifts or entertainment to, or accepting gifts or 
entertainment from, anyone who does or seeks to do business with our 
Company. Doing so may influence, or appear to influence, our ability to make 
objective business decisions. 
What to Do?
We may accept business-related meals, entertainment, token gifts or favors 
that do not exceed SAR100 in value and do not create a real or apparent 
sense of obligation
If you are ever uncertain about the appropriateness of a gift or 
entertainment, please do discuss the matter with Management and the 
Legal or Compliance team
What Not to Do?
Do not solicit any gifts or entertainment from current or potential 
customers or other business partners. We may never accept or offer 
gifts that fit any of the following descriptions:
Cash or monetary equivalents, such as gift cards or vouchers
Objects that have significant value, or may appear significant to others
Indicative of preferential treatment
In addition, we may never accept or offer gifts or entertainment that 
meets any of these criteria:
Exceeds SAR100 in value
Not business-related
In an inappropriate setting
Here are some EXAMPLES of reasonable and Excessive gifts:
Reasonable:
Tickets to a local sporting or cultural event. Attendance at a local golf outing 
hosted by a software vendor
An unsolicited gift of a paperweight of modest value given by a vendor
Modest expressions of gratitude or gifts acknowledging personal events 
such as weddings or births
Excessive:
Tickets to a distant sporting event or golf outing, plus airfare and/or hotel 
accommodations for employee and partner
Cash, monetary equivalents, stored value products or gift certificates (such 
gifts are too similar to cash and should be returned)
A lavish personal gift such as a piece of fine jewelry
Air travel ticket(s), from Customer airline, gifted to employee and/or 
employee family members 
▪
▪
▪
 
▪
▪
▪
▪
▪
▪
▪
▪
▪
▪
8.3 Outside Engagements
As contracted employees of SGS, we cannot take outside employment that 
interferes with our ability to perform our work. In addition, we may not take 
an outside position with a company or entity that acts as a vendor, business 
partner or competitor of SGS. A conflict of interest may also exist if any 
member of our immediate family is employed by our Company’s competitor, 
business partner or vendor. 
What to Do?
We must disclose any such situations to Human Resources Management 
immediately.
Serving on a Board of Directors
At times, we may seek to sit on a Board of Directors outside of SGS. 
However, serving on the Board of Directors for an outside company for any 
SGS employee requires advance declaration and SGS Executive 
Management approval (both in writing).
What to Do?
Always contact Human Resources before accepting such a position, to 
include sitting on public commissions, or taking public service appointed 
positions.
8.4 Abuse of Position
All employees at SGS are forbidden from using their positions, as well as 
their resources, property or information, for any purpose not reasonably 
related to their scope of work or for a benefit other than that of SGS. 
Examples of situations that would represent an abuse of position 
include: 
Requesting employees to perform personal errands or personal favors 
during work hours or in their capacity as a subordinate
Pressuring staff to distort facts or rules
Imposing measures that are beyond one’s line of responsibility
Use of the company’s assets or premises for one’s personal interest or 
benefits
▪
▪
▪
▪8.5 Insider Trading
In our work for SGS, we sometimes have access to information about our 
company and/or customers or business partners that is not available to the 
general public. Information becomes public only after two full trading days 
have passed since the public release of the information. Inside information 
can be either positive or negative, and commonly includes the following 
examples:
 
For information to be considered “inside”, it must be both material (meaning 
that it would affect the decisions of a reasonable investor) and non-public 
(meaning that it has not been released to the public). 
What to Do?
In order to avoid unfair and illegal transactions, should you have any 
questions as to whether the information you possess qualifies as inside 
information, do please consult our in-house Compliance or Internal Audit.
What Not to Do?
Do not ever buy or sell the stock (shares) of any company (including SGS) 
about which we possess inside information.
Projections of future earnings or losses
News of a pending or proposed merger/acquisition
News of a significant sale of assets
Declaration of a stock split or offering of additional securities
Changes in executive management
Significant new products or discoveries
▪
▪
▪
▪
▪
▪
Scenario 1
Scenario 2
A
No. If Nouf were to share this material nonpublic 
information with her uncle, she’d be engaging in 
tipping, which violates the CoC. She and her uncle 
might also be held liable for violating insider 
trading laws, and could even go to jail.
Q
Khalid learned that SGS is in negotiations with 
another public company regarding cooperation on 
development of new technologies. If the 
negotiations are successful, the cooperation will 
have significant positive effects for both 
companies. Can Khalid buy shares in SGS and buy 
shares in the other company? 
Q
Nouf knows about a potential SGS acquisition 
that will likely make our Company’s stock price 
rise. She knows that she cannot trade on this 
information, but wants to tell her uncle this 
information and encourage him to purchase SGS 
shares. Can she do so?
A
No, the information about the discussions must 
be considered inside (and confidential) 
information; Khalid can therefore not buy shares 
in either of the two companies as long as the 
discussions regarding the cooperation are 
ongoing.
This applies until the cooperation is either made 
public to the market or the discussions with the 
business partner are finally terminated without 
leading to any form of cooperation.
Q
I see that some of my colleagues take office 
supplies home for  private use; is this acceptable?
A
No, this is not acceptable. The total cost for SGS 
would be significant if all employees did the 
same. In reality this constitutes theft. It should 
be reports and the practice stopped.
Scenario 3
Scenario 4
Q
A
Q
Khalid is considering establishing a small 
company together with some friends and former 
SGS colleagues. The business idea is to make 
prototypes for mechanical products. Would it be 
acceptable to establish the enterprise and to 
offer its services to SGS?
A
Firstly, Khalid (and any other current SGS 
employees) should seek approval from their 
Manager(s) and Human Resources before they 
establish a new company.
Secondly, the offering of services to SGS may be 
considered a potential conflict of interest. The 
new company and its products/offerings should 
be immediately and fully disclosed to their 
Manager and the Compliance team; and approval 
sought from Human Resources.
Q
I see that some of my colleagues take office 
supplies home for  private use; is this acceptable?
A
No, this is not acceptable. The total cost for SGS 
would be significant if all employees did the 
same. In reality this constitutes theft. It should 
be reports and the practice stopped.
SGS are committed to the continuation of fair enterprise and the legal and regulatory 
frameworks that support it. We recognize the importance of laws that prohibit 
restraints of trade, predatory economic activities and unfair, deceptive or unethical 
business practices. It is therefore critical that SGS abstain from any activity that may 
violate or give the appearance of violating competition laws.
What to do?
Do treat all customers and suppliers honestly, fairly and objectively
Do select suppliers based on qualifications and best value, and make clear to all 
suppliers that we expect them to compete fairly and provide the highest quality 
service for our business
Do avoid any unfair or deceptive practice and always present our services and 
products in an honest and forthright manner
Do compete vigorously and with integrity
Do comply with all competition laws
Do be vigilant and exercise good judgment when dealing with unusual customer 
requests or transactions
Be a good corporate citizen. Whenever possible, to the extent that it does not 
compromise SGS’s pursuance of best value, SGS will encourage local businesses to 
participate in its bidding process and will encourage the sourcing of locally 
manufactured goods / equipment and services
What Not to do?
Never comment on a competitor’s product without a good basis for such statements
Never engage in any prohibiting agreements or understandings with competitors to 
fix prices or contract(s) conditions, or interfere in any activities that directly impact a 
third party customer; only authorized members of the Commercial and/or Business 
Development team(s) are approved to negotiate customer contracts
CUSTOMERS, SUPPLIERS 
& COMPETITORSWhile SGS primarily services and supports its airline customers, of equal importance 
is the travel experience and satisfaction of passengers and guests. SGS has several 
touch points with passengers and guests upon arrival and/or departure, and 
therefore guest perception(s) of SGS and the Kingdom (for foreign visitors) will be 
forged from the service they receive and observations made during their transit. 
We are the ‘face of the nation’ and therefore our behavior and how we deal with 
passengers and guests is critically important.
What to do?
Do communicate politely with passengers and guests at all times, and ensure any 
information communicated and shared is accurate
Do seek to set a positive and lasting first impression; it is a cliché, but they do make 
a difference!
Do be aware and recognize that your body language will be observed, and will impact 
and influence passengers and guest’s perceptions and opinions of you; which will 
subsequently impact and influence passengers and guest’s perceptions and opinions 
of SGS
Do recognize that at each passenger and guest interface and point of engagement, 
we have the opportunity to either positively or negatively impact their travel and 
service experience; we are the face of the nation
Do adhere to company dress code and hygiene regulations and policies; our image 
shapes the passengers and guest’s image of SGS
Do remember that sometimes it is not ‘what’ we say, but ‘how’ we say it; tone and 
composure have a significant impact on a recipient’s perceptions and experience
DEALING WITH 
PASSENGERS AND GUESTS  
Do always remember the basic principles of good business 
communication and customer service, which includes:
Greet guests with courtesy and professionalism
Put warmth and a smile in your voice
Use the guests name (once known)
Speak to guests in a conversational manner that makes them feel more 
comfortable
Do not eat or drink while communicating with guests
Seek to quickly understand guests needs and/or requirements; and confirm 
your understanding of these back to the passenger/guest
Respect cultural differences; irrespective of your own personal opinions
Should you leave your workstation for whatever reason, ensure your 
Supervisor, colleagues and any relevant individuals are aware of your 
movements and that messages are taken in your absence; always promptly 
follow up missed calls and return any messages etc.
Practice professional phone etiquette:
Answer phone calls promptly and with a professional greeting, e.g. “Saudi 
Ground Services, Ahmad speaking, how may I help you?”
Give the caller your full attention and do not interrupt while they are talking 
to you
If it is necessary to place a guest call on hold, thank them for their patience 
on the resumption of the call; or alternatively explain you will call them back 
– and ensure any call backs are as prompt as possible (be careful to 
appropriately manage guest expectations)
Should you receive a call that is meant for another department, explain the 
situation to the guest, provide them the correct direct contact details of the 
department they are seeking to contact, and then transfer the call
Terminate all communications with a closing greeting using the guests 
name where possible
▪
▪
▪
▪
▪
 
▪
▪
▪
▪
▪
▪
 
▪
▪
What Not to do?
Do not use communication that:
Includes airline terminology or jargon; which will only serve to confuse a 
passenger or guest
Will not be understood by a passenger or guest; speak to guests in either 
English or their mother tongue
Do not display any of the following (negative) behavior or body language:
Arms folded – defensive
Head down – uninterested and not attentive
Using personal mobile phone in view of the guest – rude and impolite
Chewing gum – rude and impolite
Appearing unwilling and/or unhelpful – poor service orientation
Using radios at full volume when not appropriate, e.g. in the premium 
lounges, on-board an aircraft, on the air-bridge while guests are boarding, 
within the Boarding Gate area – inconsiderate 
 
Do not share information with guests or passengers:
Related to internal SGS or customer airline matters (not relevant to their 
query)
In regard to another guest, or flight information not specified on their 
ticket(s); this constitutes a breach of security and confidentiality, which 
would result in both criminal and internal disciplinary consequences
Associated with airport, operational, or airline security matters
Make copies or take pictures of formal documentation, e.g. passenger 
tickets, guest name records (PNR), immigration or airline documents
▪
▪
▪
▪
▪
▪
▪
▪
▪
▪
▪
▪Our effective collaboration, cooperation and partnership with airport 
Customs, Immigration, and Security personnel is vital to the safety of 
passengers and guests, and the safe and secure operation of the Kingdoms 
airports. It is therefore critical each and every SGS employee understand 
their role and responsibilities in relation to dealing with other airport staff.
What to do?
Do maintain vigilance in regard to unusual passenger behavior (whether in 
check-in, lounge, boarding etc.), or suspicious and abandoned baggage; 
immediately and discreetly report such activity to the Airport Authority on 
duty
Do ensure that dedicated bilingual staff assist passengers and guests with 
immigration forms/cards; to effectively control the flow of passengers 
through Immigration and Security
Do ensure that dedicated bilingual staff are available and at the entrance of 
the Terminal to assist and greet arriving passengers with immigration 
and/or connecting flights (for both domestic and international arriving 
guests)
Do direct connecting passengers to international departure terminal, to 
finalize customs and carry-on/ checked baggage check
Do direct connecting passengers to domestic departure lounge after 
completion of immigration and customs formalities, to check-in baggage for 
their domestic flight
Do inform Immigration regarding Umrah passengers connecting onto 
domestic flights
Do escort special passengers through Immigration and Custom channels; 
subsequently handing-over to an Official or the guests family awaiting their 
arrival (or to their waiting transport)
DEALING WITH OTHER 
AIRPORT STAFF
(CUSTOMS, IMMIGRATION, SECURITY ETC.)
Scenario
Q
An invited bidder has a relationship with Engineer 
Samer, who is the Procurement Specialist 
managing the bid and tender process.
While Samer’s honesty and integrity has never 
been questioned, should he continue to manage 
the process?
A
No, this is a conflict of interest.  SGS 
Procurement employees and their family 
members shall have no direct or indirect personal 
interest in the Company’s contracts or projects.
What Not to do?
Do not accept any prisoner deportee without the provision of escorting 
guards (provided by Airport Security Forces)
Do not allow deportees carry-on luggage or personal effects (such as mobile 
phones, hand bags etc.) into the cabin/aircraft; all personal items must be 
checked luggage
Do not assist security screening of deportees / persons in custody
We never, as an individual, accept business opportunities, commissions or 
advantageous financial arrangements from a customer, vendor or business 
partner
12.1 Improper Use of Company Assets
SGS trusts us to respect and take care of its property to the best of our 
ability. We must work together to prevent and halt theft, destruction, 
misuse or misappropriation of all Company property, including all tangible 
and intangible assets.
12.2 Physical Property
Physical property includes Company funds, facilities, GSE equipment, Spare 
Parts, Tools, Devices, Furniture, IT assets, communications systems, etc. 
What to Do?
If you witness or suspect any wrongdoing towards our Company’s physical 
property, please do report your observations and/or concerns immediately 
to Line Director/Manager, SQS and the Internal Audit teams
PROTECTING COMPANY 
INTERESTS & ASSETSScenario 1
Scenario 2
Q
A GSE Workshop Supervisor is approached by a 
customer (airline) employee, requesting their own 
vehicle is repaired/serviced. The Supervisor is 
aware that this particular customer has no signed 
maintenance contract with SGS. Can he conduct 
the maintenance service for the customer?  
A
The correct course of action is for the Supervisor 
to direct the customer to the SGS Commercial 
team (should they wish to formalize vehicle 
services/repairs) and report the customer 
request to their respective Line 
Director/Manager.
Q
A GSE Supervisor receives equipment into the 
workshop illustrating damage and abuse. Should 
the Supervisor repair the unit without reporting 
the incident?
A
No. The incident must be declared and a work 
order opened. Such incidents are registered in 
the company maintenance platform as damage 
and abuse; failure to report the incident 
accurately is a breach of policy and CoC.
Q
A GSE Workshop Supervisor is approached by a 
customer (airline) employee, requesting their own 
vehicle is repaired/serviced. The Supervisor is 
aware that this particular customer has no signed 
maintenance contract with SGS. Can he conduct 
the maintenance service for the customer?  
A
The correct course of action is for the Supervisor 
to direct the customer to the SGS Commercial 
team (should they wish to formalize vehicle 
services/repairs) and report the customer 
request to their respective Line 
Director/Manager.
Q
A GSE Supervisor receives equipment into the 
workshop illustrating damage and abuse. Should 
the Supervisor repair the unit without reporting 
the incident?
A
No. The incident must be declared and a work 
order opened. Such incidents are registered in 
the company maintenance platform as damage 
and abuse; failure to report the incident 
accurately is a breach of policy and CoC.12.3 Intellectual Property
Our Company’s intellectual property (IP) is among our most valuable assets. 
We must protect and, when appropriate, enforce our Company’s IP rights. 
‘IP’ refers to creations of the human mind that are protected by law 
(including copyrights, patents, trademarks, trade secrets, design rights, 
logos, and know-how). To the extent permitted by law, the rights to all IP is 
assigned to SGS. This is true of any such material(s) we create during our 
employment with SGS.  
12.4 Using Company IT Systems
SGS is committed to protecting its own computing environment and 
services from casual or willful abuse or misuse. Thereby, protecting SGS 
along with staff, partners and the company from illegal or damaging actions 
by individuals either intentionally or unintentionally. 
What Not to Do?
You must take care to avoid improper use such as:
Using company resources/property or its information assets for purposes 
that are not related to business or could damage the reputation or interests 
of SGS or its staff, its partners, its clients or individuals; SGS has the full 
right to access any employees’ corporate assets without prior permission 
from the employee
Share password details with anyone, and/or share information (without 
pre-approval) related to services details/direct links with anyone inside or 
outside of SGS
Storing company information on non-SGS’s devices, including personal 
desktop, laptop, and/or smart phones
Viewing, sharing, or uploading company data on external websites or 
communicating inappropriate, sexually explicit or offensive statements
Scenario 3
Scenario 4
Downloading/uploading unlicensed or illegal material; we should never use 
SGS’s network or internet/email system to send, receive or store any 
messages that SGS intends to keep private - all information, data and files 
belong to the company, and to the extent permitted by law, SGS reserves 
the right to monitor or disclose any messages, documents or any other files 
on company computers without notice
SGS understands the unique opportunity we have to engage with colleagues 
(fellow employees), customers and stakeholders through social media. These 
include blogs, micro blogs (Twitter®), social networking sites (such as 
Facebook®, LinkedIn®), wikis, photo/video sharing sites and chat rooms. 
However, when utilizing these resources, we must keep in mind that 
electronic messages are permanent, transferable records of our 
communications. They can be altered without our consent and can affect 
SGS’s reputation if released to the public. Therefore, when using social media, 
we are expected to use and exercise good judgment and common sense
Q
Is an employee at fault when they use their company PC to 
browse unsecure websites and download files that might be 
infected with viruses?
A
Yes, all employees should act responsibly and be vigilant and 
not download suspected files or browse unsecure websites. 
Q
A member of staff has shared confidential information 
(regarding another employee’s salary/benefits) on external 
social media websites.
A
This is a violation of the CoC and a breach of 
confidentiality; therefore the member of staff will be 
disciplined (and potentially terminated) according to policy
Q
Is an employee at fault when they use their company PC to 
browse unsecure websites and download files that might be 
infected with viruses?
A
Yes, all employees should act responsibly and be vigilant and 
not download suspected files or browse unsecure websites. 
Q
A member of staff has shared confidential information 
(regarding another employee’s salary/benefits) on external 
social media websites.
A
This is a violation of the CoC and a breach of 
confidentiality; therefore the member of staff will be 
disciplined (and potentially terminated) according to policy13.1 Workplace Safety & Health 
Safety is everyones responsibility, and therefore our objective is to cultivate 
and foster a safety culture in which employees and customers are 
comfortable and encouraged to bring safety concerns to the attention of 
Management. We encourage uninhibited reporting by employees of any 
incident, near misses and occurrences observed in the operation which may 
compromise the safe and secure conduct of SGS operations.
What to Do? 
COMMITMENT TO SAFETY, 
HEALTH & ENVIRONMENT
We must work together to promote a safe and healthy workplace. SGS 
values each of us as its most important assets, and is committed to the 
highest standards of safety and employee protection
If you are aware of unsafe working conditions, do report the situation to 
Management, Compliance and/or SQS (Safety, Quality, and Security) team(s) 
immediately
Safe operation is our commitment. It is imperative that we report all 
incidents and occurrences that compromise the safety of our operations 
through the SQS reporting system
If you are aware of unsafe working conditions, do report the situation to 
Management and the SQS (Safety, Quality, and Security) team(s) 
immediately
13.2 Environment
We are expected to act as environmental stewards when conducting business on 
our Company’s behalf.
Our commitment to the communities in which we operate mean that we all must 
strive to minimize any negative effects our work might have on the environment. 
 
What to Do?
We must comply with all applicable environmental laws and regulations, as well as 
any guidelines set forth by our Company or Business Unit
We must all operate with respect for the environment by working to minimize any 
environmental hazards, conserve and protect natural resources, and manage our 
energy usage
Correctly dispose of office paper and other office waste
Dispose of chemicals and other hazardous wastes only in compliance with company 
procedures and government regulations
Ensure there is an efficient use of energy and resources (e.g. lighting, heaters, and 
water)
Scenario 1
Scenario 2
Q
I am afraid I will be punished for reporting any mistakes of mine 
or my colleagues.
A
All employees are advised and should understand that SGS 
will not initiate any disciplinary action against an employee 
who discloses an incident or occurrence involving safety.
Q
How do I report safety concerns? 
A
All and any safety concerns should be reported through the 
SQS department safety reporting system, email, phone or 
any other means of communication.
14.1 Reporting Misconduct & Code Violations
We all have an obligation to read, understand and follow the CoC. It applies to all 
SGS employees, Executives and Directors. Further, we expect that our suppliers, 
agents, business partners, and consultants will follow similar principles. Using the 
CoC to guide our actions allows us to preserve our reputation for doing business 
the right way. 
How you embody SGS’s ethical values expressed in the CoC is an element of the 
employee performance evaluation and ITQAN process. Violations of the CoC will 
result in disciplinary measures, including termination of employment.
What to Do?
Each of us must:
Read, understand and personally abide by the CoC
Not assist others in violating the CoC
Report any perceived violation or request that might constitute a violation
Take action as requested to remediate any potential violations or violations of 
the CoC
Complete training on the CoC and other assigned learning as directed
 
BREACH OF SGS 
CODE OF CONDUCT
SGS also expects its consultants, subcontractors and other third parties to
be aware of and adhere to these ethical standards as described in this CoC
If you become aware of any activity involving the conduct of these individuals
that violates the principles of the CoC, you must disclose it to Management 
and/or Human Resources
▪
▪
▪
▪
 
▪
BREACH OF SGS 
CODE OF CONDUCT
14.2 How Do I Raise Concerns?
SGS treats all reports confidentially to the extent our Company is able to. We do 
so consistent with the law, company policy and the requirements for conducting 
a thorough investigation. Suspected violations may even be reported 
anonymously, where allowed by law. To raise a concern or make a report, reach 
out to any of the following resources via email, online, phone, letter or in person:
14.3 What Happens Next?
SGS promises to investigate all reports promptly, thoroughly and consistent 
with applicable law. Investigations will be kept confidential to the extent 
possible. If necessary, SGS may report certain investigations to the appropriate 
authorities. Our company will take appropriate corrective or disciplinary action for 
CoC violations whenever necessary.
Your Direct Supervisor or someone in Management
The Human Resources Department:
 
IAHotline@saudiags.com
▪
▪
HRinvestigation@saudiags.com
Labor Violations :
Suspected Violations and others :
Internal Audit Hotline:
Legal and Compliance Departmant:▪
▪
Compliance@saudiags.com14.4 Whistle Blowing
Whistleblowing is defined as the act of drawing attention of an authority to a 
suspected wrongdoing, misconduct, or unethical activity by an individual or a 
group of individuals.
What to Do?
Do immediately report any possible cases of criminal or unethical activity, 
whether you witnessed a case or if you faced one, through Internal Audit Hotline 
and Human Resources; all and any reports and/or allegations will be treated
with the strict confidentiality.
However, where possible, employees are encouraged to raise their concerns first
within SGS, by talking to their supervising Manager and/or Human Resources. By 
delaying or not reporting a serious
wrongdoing, the employee could be harming SGS and their colleagues.
14.5 Principle of Non-Retaliation
SGS does not tolerate acts of retaliation against anyone who makes an honest 
and sincere report of a possible violation of law or of SGS’s CoC or policies, or 
who participates in an investigation of possible wrongdoing. Simply stated, it 
does not matter whether your report actually uncovers unethical behavior, as 
long as you have honest intentions in making it. 
SGS is committed to ensuring that our employees feel comfortable reporting 
suspected misconduct and will promptly investigate all allegations of retaliatory 
acts. Individuals who retaliate against a person for making a report or 
participating in an investigation will face disciplinary action, up to and including 
termination of employment.
14.6 Disciplinary Action
To maintain the highest standards of integrity, we must dedicate ourselves to 
complying with our CoC, Company policies and procedures, and applicable laws 
and regulations. Individuals who fail to do so will be subject to disciplinary action 
that may include termination. The extent of any disciplinary measures will 
depend on the circumstances of the violation. All discipline will be applied in a 
manner consistent with our Company’s policies and practices, as well as the law. 
In addition, applicable regulatory authorities may impose fines and criminal or 
civil penalties on at-fault individuals.
