Regulations 
of Travel and Tourism 
ServicesChapter One: Introductory Provisions
2
Description Page No.
Chapter One: Introductory Provisions 3
 Chapter Two: License 6
Chapter Three: Exemptions 11
 Chapter Four: Financial Guarantees 13
 Chapter Five: Ongoing Obligations 15
Chapter Six: General Provisions 22
Fees Schedule 24
ContentsChapter One
Introductory ProvisionsChapter One: Introductory Provisions
4
Law: Tourism Law.
Regulations: Regulations of Travel and Tourism Services.
Ministry: Ministry of Tourism.
Minister: Minister of Tourism.
Travel and Tourism Services: Arranging, organizing, and 
providing services in the field of tourism, including tourist trips 
and programs, selling and marketing travel tickets by licensed 
companies, providing visa issuance services or other travel-related 
services, as well as arranging services for tourist activities and for 
accommodation facilities and the booking of such facilities, and 
other related services.
License: A document issued by the Ministry allowing its holder to 
practice the activity of travel and tourism services. 
Licensee: Any person with a legal capacity who is licensed by the 
Ministry in accordance with the Law and its Regulations.
Travel and Tourism Services Office: A place through which the 
licensee practices the activity of travel and tourism services, be it a 
building or a website.
Head Office: A travel and tourism services office through which the 
licensee’s branch office is managed and regulated.
Branch Office: A travel and tourism services office that 
administratively and organizationally reports to the head office.
Tourist Accommodation Facility: Any place, operating 
permanently or temporally, which provides the tourist with 
accommodation services for a fee.   
Private Tourist Accommodation Facility: An independent 
furnished real estate unit owned by an individual and licensed by 
the Ministry that provides accommodation service for a tourist in 
return for a fee.
Tourist Guiding: The practice of guiding tourists at tourist 
destinations and other places.
Article 1 In these Regulations, the following terms and phrases shall have the 
meanings assigned thereto, unless the context requires otherwise.Chapter One: Introductory Provisions
5
Article 2
These Regulations set rules for regulating the activity of travel and 
tourism services, and defines the procedures, controls, conditions, and 
requirements for obtaining the license necessary for practicing such 
activity, and specify the licensee’s obligations and general provisions.  
Tourist Destination: Any geographical area or location in which 
tourism activities are practiced or targeted, or which contains 
tourism resources, as prescribed by Article 6 of the Law.
Tourist Program: A group of tourist services prepared and/or 
implemented during a trip or several trips by a travel and tourism 
service provider in return for a fee, within a specified period of time.
Tourist: A person with a natural capacity who lawfully stays 
for a period not less than one night outside his regular place of 
residence for tourism purposes, or who benefits from one or more 
of the services of tourist, complementary and specialized activities.
Reservation Voucher: A contract concluded by the licensee with 
the service applicant to provide one or more of the licensed services.  
Procedural Guides: A document that includes instructions, 
guidelines, criteria, or others to specify the detailed procedures 
complementary to these Regulations, in accordance with the 
provisions of the Law and its Regulations.
Official Address: The address registered in the license, the national 
address, or the contact information of the activity practitioner, 
whatever their types, as obtained by the Ministry.Chapter Two:
LicenseChapter Two: License
7
Article 3
Article 4
Travel and tourism services activity may not be practiced without 
obtaining a license, after the expiry or cancellation of the license, or 
during its suspension period.
Travel and tourism services shall be licensed pursuant to the 
following divisions: 
1. (Accommodation Unit Reservation) Class, which is limited 
to providing services of marketing and managing reservations 
of the units of tourist accommodation facilities and private 
tourist accommodation facilities. 
2. (Organizing Tours) Class, which is limited to providing the 
following services: 
a. Arranging accommodation services at the tourist 
accommodation facility;
b. Arranging tourist guiding services;
c. Arranging catering services in the tourist program;
d. Arranging and implementing ground services for the tourist, such 
as receiving and seeing-off, transporting luggage, and the like;
e. Arranging car rental services with or without a driver;
f. Arranging insurance services for tourists;
g. Arranging the services of reservations, visits to events, 
exhibitions, conferences, museums, natural reserves, markets, 
restaurants, and the like; 
h. Arranging and marketing educational or therapeutic services 
outside the Kingdom, as approved by the competent 
authorities; and
i. Preparing, marketing, and implementing tourist programs of 
all types for those tourists inside the Kingdom. 
3. (Travel and Tourism Agency) Class, which is limited to 
providing the following services: 
a. Selling travel tickets inside the Kingdom and abroad via 
different transportation means on behalf of the transportation 
companies, including sale of the services related thereto;
b. Arranging accommodation services at the tourist 
accommodation facility;Chapter Two: License
8
c. Arranging insurance services for tourists;
d. Marketing the tourist program;
e. Arranging the services of issuing visas to travel outside the 
Kingdom; and
f. Arranging services for issuing international driving licenses and 
the like.  
4. (General Travel and Tourism Services) Class, which is limited 
to providing the following services: 
a. All the services referred to in the Classes set out in Paragraphs 
(1), (2) and (3); 
b. Marketing tourist destinations;
c. Arranging visa issuance services for visitors wishing to come to 
the Kingdom;
d. Preparing, marketing, and implementing tourist programs of 
all kinds for visitors wishing to come to the Kingdom;
e. Arranging, in coordination with transportation means, rented 
(land, sea, and air) transportation services in various sizes and 
seating capacity. 
Article 5
The following requirements shall be satisfied when applying to 
obtain a license from the Ministry: 
1. A valid commercial register, including the required travel and 
tourism services activity; 
2. A valid license from the Ministry of Municipal and Rural Affairs 
and Housing or the competent authority, as the case may 
be; an authentication of website shall be sufficient for those 
providing the service only via electronic means for the classes 
set out in Paragraphs (1), (2) and (3) of Article 4;
3. Official data of the applicant and the travel and tourism services 
office and its representative in dealing with the Ministry, if any; 
4. Proof of the right to use the trademark, if any;
5. A bank guarantee in accordance with Article 13 of these 
Regulations.
6. The applicant shall fill out the license application form prepared 
by the Ministry.Chapter Two: License
9
Article 6
Article 7
Article 8
Article 10
Article 9
The Ministry shall issue the license after the licensee satisfies the 
requirements set forth in Article 5 of these Regulations and pays 
the license fees in accordance with the Fees Schedule attached to 
these Regulations. 
1. The license shall contain the licensee’s data, class, the issuing 
and expiry dates of the license, and any other information 
specified by the Ministry.
2. The validity period of the license shall not exceed three years, 
and shall be renewable.
A separate license shall be obtained for each branch office, and 
shall be of the same class as that of the head office. The license 
application for a branch office shall be exempted from the 
requirement set forth in Article 5(5) of these Regulations.
The licensee shall obtain the Ministry’s approval and pay the fees in 
accordance with the Fees Schedule attached to these Regulations 
prior to carrying out any of the following: 
1. Temporary closure of the travel and tourism services office, 
provided that the office notifies all persons affected by such 
closure, and terminates all existing obligations during the 
closure period;
1. If the licensee intends to renew the license, he shall submit a 
request to the Ministry within 60 days prior to its expiry and 
shall satisfy the following requirements: 
a. An undertaking to fulfil the requirements specified in Article 5 
of these Regulations, as per the license class;
b. Payment of the license renewal fee in accordance with the Fees 
Schedule attached to these Regulations. 
2. After satisfying the requirements stipulated in Paragraph (1) 
of this Article, the Ministry shall issue the renewed license, 
and such renewal shall take effect from the expiry date of the 
previous license for a period not exceeding three years.Chapter Two: License
10
2. Permanent closure of the travel and tourism services office 
and request for license cancellation, provided that the office 
notifies all persons affected by such closure, and terminates all 
existing obligations during the closure period;
3. Changing the location of the travel and tourism services office; 
4. Cancellation or amendment of the commercial register, trade 
name, or trademark, including changing same on the website 
or the external sign of the travel and tourism services office.
5. Allowing others to use the license, provided that the person 
to whom the license is transferred meets the requirements 
specified in the Regulations and that the remaining license 
term is not less than 60 days.   
Article 11
The licensee shall, upon cancellation of the head office license 
while retaining a license for a branch office affiliated with said 
office, carry out the following:
1. Name an alternative head office – within a period not 
exceeding 15 days from the date of cancellation – that meets 
all the requirements set forth in these Regulations in the event 
that the cancellation is based on the provisions of the Law and 
its Regulations; and 
2. Name an alternative head office that meets all the requirements 
set forth in these Regulations in the event that the cancellation 
was at his request, prior to license cancellation.Chapter Three:
ExemptionsChapter Three: Exemptions
12
Article 12
The Minister, or his designee, may issue exemptions from the 
requirements set forth in Article 5(2) and (5) of these Regulations, 
pursuant to the following considerations:
1. Needs of the tourism sector in the area or tourist destination 
targeted in the license;
2. Size and expected contribution of the project vis-à-vis the 
quality of the tourist services provided, or the provision of job 
opportunities for Saudis; and
3. Any other considerations approved by a decision of the Minister.Chapter Four:
Financial GuaranteesChapter Four: Financial Guarantees
14
Article 13
Article 14
Article 15
Article 16
The amount of the financial guarantee shall be determined 
pursuant to a decision of the Minister or his designee, provided 
that said guarantee does not exceed 2 million riyals, as well as the 
required class for which the guarantee shall be paid for obtaining 
the license.  
1. The following amounts shall be deducted from the financial 
guarantee referred to in Article 13 of these Regulations:
a. Fines imposed on the licensee in accordance with the provisions 
of the Law.
b. The tourist’s financial rights resulting from the services provided 
thereto by the licensee.
c. Compensations for any damage resulting from the services 
provided by the licensee.
2. The fine imposed on the licensee referred to in Sub-paragraph 
(a) of this Article shall be deducted 45 days following the date 
of his notification thereof.
3. The financial rights and compensations referred to in Sub-
paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Article shall be deducted 24 
hours following the date of notifying the licensee to pay same.
In the event of a shortfall in the financial guarantee referred to 
in Article 13 of these Regulations, the licensee shall cover such 
shortfall within a period not exceeding 30 days.
Subject to the provisions of Article 14 of these Regulations, the 
financial guarantee shall be revoked at the request of the licensee 
upon the Ministry’s approval, in the event of cancelling his license.  Chapter Five:
Ongoing ObligationsChapter Five: Ongoing Obligations
16
Article 17
Article 18
The licensee shall: 
1. Abide by the terms of license throughout its validity period;
2. Provide the services as per the license issued thereto;
3. Prevent other persons from using the license;
4. Comply with the decisions, instructions, and circulars issued 
by the Ministry;
5. Allow inspectors to carry out their duties as stipulated by the 
Law and its Regulations, as well as cooperate with them and 
facilitate their work; 
6. Avoid using the Ministry’s name or logo in any promotional or 
marketing activity without obtaining its approval; and
7. Respond to the Ministry on a regular basis through the 
representative of the travel and tourism services office. 
To ensure the quality of the service provided, the licensee shall 
abide by the following:
1. Indicate the basic data specified in the license, as follows:
a. Keep the license posted in a conspicuous place at the premises 
of the travel and tourism services office;
b. Include the trade name and the license number and class on 
all its electronic pages and websites;
c. Indicate the trade name on e-reservation platforms upon 
dealing therewith;
d. Indicate the trade name and the license number and class on 
all official documents, papers and publications, in addition to 
the trademark, if any.
2. Decline to use an expired license;
3. Use images that correspond with the actual reality of the 
services provided upon publishing or advertising same;
4. Apply the general health rules and conditions to the travel 
and tourism services office and all its services, and to all 
employees therein;
5. Ensure that employees, whether at the travel and tourism 
services office or upon their presentation of the tourist 
program, maintain personal hygiene and good appearance;
6. Maintain general cleanliness in all fixtures at the travel and 
tourism services office or those used in the tourist program 
offered thereby;Chapter Five: Ongoing Obligations
17
7. Receive and welcome tourists, and answer their inquiries with 
courtesy and respect.
8. Use the Arabic or English languages and the Hijri and 
Gregorian calendars in all official dealings and publications, 
and answer phone calls and respond to e-mails as per the 
tourist’s wish;
9. Respond to inquiries and complaints in relation to the services 
delivered on a 24/7 basis;
10. Record all incoming and outgoing calls and correspondence 
of customer service and keep same for a period of one year, 
in order to provide the Ministry or competent authorities 
therewith upon request.
11. Avoid dealing with persons not licensed or authorized by the 
Ministry or by the competent authorities upon marketing, 
arranging or providing services;
12. Notify tourists whose reservation vouchers will be valid during 
the temporary closure period of the procedures to be taken 
with them, without prejudice to their rights contained in the 
contracts concluded with them;
13. Approve, amend, or cancel the tourist program pursuant to 
the mechanisms approved by the Ministry;
14. Avoid declining to provide services without legally acceptable 
reasons.
Article 19
In order to ensure the integrity of the information and data 
submitted to the Ministry, the licensee shall: 
1. Provide the Ministry, upon its request, with any information 
or data via any means it deems appropriate and within the 
specified time;
2. Update his data and that of the travel and tourism services 
office registered with Ministry’s electronic system immediately 
after any change thereof;
3. Maintain a copy of the tourists’ data, contracts, and any other 
data required to be kept by the Ministry, for a period of no less 
than one year, without prejudice to their confidentiality and 
privacy in accordance with the relevant statutory provisions, 
upon delivering services that require access to personal data, 
address, and contact means.Chapter Five: Ongoing Obligations
18
Article 20
Article 21
To ensure transparency vis-à-vis the prices of services delivered, 
the licensee shall set and abide by a price list of these services in 
both the Arabic and English languages, and shall announce same 
in accordance with the controls set by the Ministry, provided that 
said list includes the legal fees and taxes.
To ensure the safety and security of tourists, the licensee shall:
1. Maintain the confidentiality and privacy of the tourist’s 
information, and avoid sharing or using same for any purpose 
whatsoever without obtaining his consent;
2. Refrain from taking a copy of the tourist’s identification 
card, except when providing a service so requiring as per the 
requirements of the agency providing the service, such as 
facilitating the procedures for obtaining entry visas to the 
Kingdom or to foreign countries;
3. Maintain the official documents or papers received from the 
tourist for the purpose of providing the service, and return 
same in their original form within the agreed period of time;
4. Inform the tourist of his lost and found items, and retain 
them until claimed by the tourist and set a period of at least 
30 days to keep the lost and found items before disclaiming 
responsibility for them, starting from the date of notifying 
the tourist; if not possible, the competent authorities shall be 
notified accordingly;
5. Abide by the laws and by the instructions of the competent 
authorities regarding security, health, and environmental 
aspects, as well as safety means, aid, and evacuation, and 
take all necessary measures  and precautions in this regard. 
6. Prevent employees from smoking at the travel and tourism 
services office or during the tourist program;
7. Provide security precautions, in accordance with the controls 
and requirements of the competent authorities;
8. Report immediately and directly to the competent authorities 
any incident that is related to the safety and security of 
tourists, whether at the travel and tourism services office or 
upon the delivery of services;
9. Obtain the necessary approvals, permits, and licenses in the 
following cases:
a. Upon arranging any activities or events that fall within the Chapter Five: Ongoing Obligations
19
jurisdiction of other government agencies during the tourist 
program;
b. Upon visiting sites that require visit permits by their supervising 
agencies;
10. Designate one tourist guide at least for every 25 tourists 
when providing the tourist guiding service and ensure that the 
tourist guide’s license matches the service delivered; 
11. Avoid marketing or managing the bookings of any units 
of the tourist accommodation facility or private tourist 
accommodation facility unless they are licensed and 
authorized by the Ministry;
12. Decline to allow using the ticketing system by any unauthorized 
persons or agencies.
13. Avoid selling and implementing travel ticket reservations with 
(IATA) numbers for destinations located outside the Kingdom.
To ensure the rights related to process of reservation and payment 
for service, the licensee shall: 
1. Inform the customer of the services provided and the prices 
and policies related thereto, payment mechanism, and the 
policy for cancelling or amending reservation;
2. Issue and provide the reservation voucher to the customer, 
provided that it includes the following information:
a. Date, duration, and fees for the reservation, including free and 
non-free services provided as part of the reservation;
b. The policy and terms of reservation as well as its cancellation 
or amendment, including the steps for cancellation or 
amendment request, response thereto, and the specified 
periods for accepting or rejecting the request.
c. Method for paying and refunding the insurance amounts, if 
any, required from the tourist.
d. Contact data and information with the customer service 
department and the Ministry’s tourist phone.
3. Deliver the service as provided for in the reservation voucher 
issued thereby;
4. Ensure the correctness of the tourist’s personal data entered 
upon booking the airline tickets or the tourist accommodation 
facility, or other services so requiring;
Article 22Chapter Five: Ongoing Obligations
20
5. Provide the tourist with a receipt for any payments made for 
the services provided in both Arabic and English, provided that 
the receipt includes the details and fees of such services;
6. Provide credit card point of sale, specifically for Visa and 
MasterCard at least and other types of credit cards; 
7. Avoid deducting or claiming any fees from the tourist’s 
credit card account, unless such fees are accounted for in the 
amounts agreed upon with the tourist as per the reservation 
voucher.
Article 23
Article 24
Should the licensee fail to provide the service agreed upon in the 
reservation voucher, he shall give the tourist the following options:
1. Offer an alternative service that is equal to the agreed service, 
provided that the tourist does not bear any extra cost as a 
result of this change.
2. Immediate refund of the paid amounts without deducting 
any fees.
If the service cannot be provided due to an emergency or force 
majeure, the licensee shall abide by any decision issued by the 
competent authorities in this regard.
The licensee in the two classes (Accommodation Unit Reservation) 
and (general travel and tourism services) shall immediately refund 
the amounts paid to him in return for booking a private tourist 
accommodation facility for the night on which the service was 
interrupted and the remaining period of the reservation, or provide 
an alternative unit acceptable to the tourist, in the following cases:
1. When basic services, such as electricity, water, etc., are 
interrupted for a period exceeding two hours;
2. Enforce a penalty decision issued by the Ministry entailing 
closure of the facility, or a judicial ruling requiring evacuation 
thereof; 
3. Evacuation of the private tourism accommodation facility 
for reasons that pose an imminent danger to public health 
or safety;
4. When the tourist is unable to conduct check-in for the reserved 
unit while retaining a confirmed reservation;Chapter Five: Ongoing Obligations
21
Article 25
To ensure the efficiency of its employees at the travel and tourism 
services office, the licensee shall carry out the following:
1. Ensure that the manager, unless he is registered as a manager 
in the licensed commercial register, possesses the necessary 
powers to manage and operate the office, and that he satisfies 
the following conditions and qualifications:
a. An academic qualification of not less than a bachelor’s 
degree, with at least one year of practical experience in the 
field of travel and tourism services, or a diploma with at least 
two years of practical experience in the field of travel and 
tourism services;
b. Spoken and written fluency in both the Arabic and English 
languages.
2. Ensure that the staff, including heads of departments, units, 
and administrations, and employees directly in contact 
with tourists, are qualified and that they hold certificates of 
specialized training programs in their field of work;
3. Register the data of all employees (personal data, 
qualifications, experience, etc.) with the Ministry within a 
period not exceeding three months, and update as per any 
changes that may occur;
4. Abide by the instructions issued by the Ministry, based on 
coordination between the Ministry and the competent 
authorities, with regard to work controls, and implement 
administrative and specialized training plans for employees.Chapter Six:
General ProvisionsChapter Six: General Provisions
23
Article 26
Article 27
Article 28
Article 30
Article 31
1. A person practicing travel and tourism services activity shall be 
subject to inspection in accordance with the Law, Regulations 
and procedural guides set by the Ministry for this purpose.
2. Penalties shall be implemented against any violation of the 
provisions of the Law and its Regulations pursuant to the 
Schedule of Violations and Penalties referred to in Article 
16(5) of the Law.
Without prejudice to relevant laws, the Ministry may seek the 
assistance of specialized technical companies or agencies to 
carry out certain tasks entrusted thereto under the Law and its 
Regulations, provided that they have sufficient trained technical 
personnel and experience as per the tasks assigned thereto as 
specified by the Ministry, in accordance with the provisions of the 
Law and its Regulations.
The procedural guides required to implement the provisions of 
these Regulations shall be issued pursuant to a decision of the 
Minister or his designee, upon the recommendation of the Ministry, 
and shall be updated in the same manner. These guides shall be 
published on the Ministry’s official website, and shall enter into 
force as of the date of publication thereof.
Any correspondence sent by the Ministry to the practitioners of 
the travel and tourism services activity at their official addresses 
shall be deemed an official notification.
These Regulations shall be issued pursuant to a decision of the 
Minister. They shall be published in the Official Gazette and shall 
enter into force as of the effective date of the LawFees Schedule
24
Service Class
License Duration
One Year Two Years Three Years
Fees (SAR)
License Issuance
 General Travel and Tourism
Services 20,000 22,000 24,000
Organizing Tours 10,000 11,000 12,000
Travel and Tourism Agency 10,000 11,000 12,000
 Accommodation Facility Unit
Reservation 5,000 5,500 6,000
Service Class
License Duration
One Year Two Years Three Years
Fees (SAR)
License Renewal
 General Travel and Tourism
Services 2,000 4,000 6,000
Organizing Tours 1,000 2,000 3,000
Travel and Tourism Agency 1,000 2,000 3,000
 Accommodation Facility Unit
Reservation 500 1,000 1,500
Service
License Duration
One Year Two Years Three Years
Fees (SAR)
License Issuance for Branch Office 1,000 2,000 3,000
Fees Schedule for the Activity of Travel and Tourism ServicesFees Schedule
25
Service Class Fees (SAR)
 Transfer License
Ownership
 General Travel and
Tourism Services 1,000
Organizing Tours 700
 Travel and Tourism
Agency 700
 Accommodation Unit
Reservation 500
Service Fees (SAR)
Change Office Location 400
 Change Commercial Register or
(Trademark (Offices No fees
Temporary Closure No fees
License Cancelation No fees
Fees Schedule for the Activity of Travel and Tourism Services