BEST PRACTICES  
FOR EFFECTIVE & EFFICIENT  
VENDOR MANAGEMENTTABLE OF CONTENTS 
1. Introduction
2. From IT vendor management to strategic partnership
3. Vendor Management Tools and Mechanisms
4. The successful vendor selection process
5. Benefits of implementing Vendor Management
6. Case study of Financial Services IT outsourcing project
7. Summary
4
8
10
22
26
27
30
Adam Tymofiejewicz
Consulting Director of ICT Services BENELUX 
Comarch
Małgorzata Zabieglińska – Lupa
ICT Product Manager 
Comarch
Authors:1. “Predicts 2016: IT Vendor Ecosystems Must be Re-evaluated Based on Agility, 
Collaboration and Risk”, Gartner report
1. INTRODUCTION
Long-term development in the business environment has become much more 
difficult to anticipate due to globalization, digital innovation, more demanding 
customers, shorter product life cycles, continuous pressure on costs, as well as 
social and ethical issues. In addition, vendors are finding that the world is rapidly 
changing as we move into the digital era.
While responding to the changing business environment, organizations are using 
new organization models, modern management methods (i.e. lean management 
or Six Sigma), or innovative sourcing approaches (i.e. crowdsourcing). Outsourcing 
and vendor management have become the key factors in enabling organizations 
to build a successful business and achieve business goals.
Regardless of the business you're in, vendors play a key role in the success of your 
organization. If you had asked automobile manufacturers 20 years ago how they 
selected car parts suppliers, they would probably have said it was based on price 
in the first place, then the supplier location and preference. Customer demands, 
governance and the rapidly changing and growing IT industry have put a stronger 
emphasis on safety and quality, so evaluating and selecting the right supplier today 
has become a much more critical and complex process for each organization, not 
only automobile manufacturers. According to Gartner, by 2019, 50% of the external 
service and solution expenses of global 2000 companies will be through less 
than 10 strategic vendors in an organization's vendor ecosystem
1. This shows how 
important vendor management is.
WHITEPAPER4WHITEPAPER
5
WHAT IS VENDOR MANAGEMENT? 
According to Gartner’s definition, Vendor 
Management is “a discipline that enables organiza-
tions to control costs, drive service excellence and 
mitigate risks to gain increased value from their 
vendors throughout the deal life cycle.”
2 In keep-
ing with Gartner’s definition, Vendor Management 
should help each organization, regardless of the 
size and the industry, to:
 n select the right vendors;
 n categorize vendors to ensure the right contract, 
metrics and relationship;
 n determine the ideal number of vendors;
 n mitigate risk when using vendors;
 n and establish a vendor management organiza-
tion that best fits the enterprise.
3
Good vendor management allows your organization 
to build a successful and stronger relationship 
with your suppliers or service providers. These 
partnerships will not only strengthen both 
businesses, but also allow you to focus on building 
and delivering products and services at the optimal 
level of quality and add value to your clients.
The list below is a good starting point for figuring out 
the types of deal your company needs. You should 
take a brief moment to answer these questions. 
All answers help your organization to match the 
vendor management model to your organizational 
goals and objectives.
 n WHO ARE YOU? – YOU SHOULD HAVE A 
CLEAR UNDERSTANDING OF YOUR ORGANI -
ZATION’S EXPECTATIONS AND PRIORITIES;
 n WHY DID THE COMPANY DECIDE TO IMPLE -
MENT A VENDOR MANAGEMENT PROCESS?
 n WHAT IS THE SUITABLE NUMBER OF PEOPLE 
TO COMMIT TO THE VENDOR MANAGEMENT 
FUNCTION?
 n HOW ESSENTIAL ARE VENDORS’ PRODUCTS 
AND SERVICES TO THE ORGANIZATION?
 n WHAT METRICS SHOULD BE UTILIZED TO 
MEASURE THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THE 
VENDOR MANAGEMENT MODEL?
 n WHO WILL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR THE VEN -
DOR MANAGEMENT PROCESS?
 n WHICH PROCESS IS RESPONSIBLE FOR 
MANAGING RELATIONSHIPS WITH VEN -
DORS AT THIS MOMENT?
 n WHY SHOULD OUR ORGANIZATION CARE 
ABOUT RELATIONS WITH VENDORS?
 n WHAT ARE THEY CAPABLE OF?
 n WHAT VALUE DOES IT BRING TO THE 
ORGANIZATION?
2. http://www.gartner.com/it-glossary/vendor-management/
3. http://www.gartner.com/it-glossary/vendor-management/
WHITEPAPER6
Large, international organizations often have hun-
dreds of vendor relationships to make effective  
relationships and manage them. Increasingly, these 
relationships are drawing scrutiny from regulators, 
stakeholders (i.e. boards of directors) and internal / 
external auditors. With this increasing dependence 
on vendors, it can be challenging for organizations 
to effectively monitor and manage these relation-
ships. The following steps should be performed 
to identify, validate and operationalize all require-
ments. It's also important for organizations to follow 
these stages to ensure a comprehensive plan is put 
in place to reap the benefits of the vendor manage-
ment process.
 n Develop the strategic vision – a strategic 
vision for vendor management is critical to 
the development of the framework. The vision 
defines the desired organization, capability 
and scope of vendor management activities. 
The vision should be created with the input of 
all key stakeholders (e.g. business units, finance 
department, legal and compliance, etc.)
 n Design and documentation – the strategic 
vision is brought to life through the design 
and documentation of the framework. Each of 
the elements is documented to facilitate the 
validation, roll out and ongoing execution of the 
framework.
 n Validation and Implementation – key 
stakeholders should be provided with the 
opportunity to validate and vet the framework 
to confirm that their specific requirements have 
been addressed. Validation of the framework will 
support the development and execution of roll-
out plans, while creating improved awareness for 
vendor management.
 n Reporting and continuous improvement – exe-
cuting the new vendor management framework 
usually includes making company–wide changes 
to accommodate the new governance processes, 
operational roles and responsibilities. Additional 
implementation activities may include changes 
in management and communication, process 
re-engineering, progress reporting, as well as sys-
tem requirement definition and selection.
VENDOR MANAGEMENT 
LIFE CYCLE
JOIN US ONWHITEPAPER
7
 
These stages can also be shown in a slightly different 
way.
 n Vendor Selection – during this stage, the 
vendor management strategy should be exe-
cuted. It is based on relationships with vendors, 
commodities and services procured, and past 
performance metrics, etc. Evaluation criteria 
together with KPIs are also defined at this stage. 
Additionally, vendors should be measured 
against the terms and conditions agreed in the 
current contract.
 n Service Delivery – during this stage, the 
selected vendor provides services, which need 
to be monitored and managed. Based on the 
defined strategy and evaluation metrics criteria, 
performance should be collected from various 
sources. All collected data should be measured 
and reported in an appropriate form to be 
shared with both parties.
 n Service Adjustment – this stage provides the 
opportunity to optimize already established 
relations with the vendor. Previously defined 
KPIs can be used to identify areas to change, 
optimize or improve.
 n Contract Review – during this stage, review 
meetings should be conducted with vendors 
as per the strategy defined earlier. The review 
meetings should be held periodically i.e. once 
a month, quarterly, half yearly or yearly. This 
depends on the strategy and client expectation. 
The agenda of these meetings should include 
the following points:
 n Discussion of performance as regards various 
metrics;
 n Action points from previous review meetings;
 n Areas of improvement;
 n Support needed to drive project improve-
ment, etc.Vendor Selection
Service 
Delivery
Service Adjustment
VENDOR 
MANAGEMENT
LIFE CYCLE
Contract
ReviewWHITEPAPER
8
For many years, customers have used vendors 
to support various IT and business activities. 
In a fast-changing business environment, they 
are interested in increasing the direct business 
value of IT by developing strategic partnerships. 
Strategic partnerships are becoming more critical 
to enterprise success. But what is the meaning 
of strategic partnerships and how can they be 
built? According to Gartner's definition, “strategic 
partnerships (SPs) are external relationships that 
directly support key business processes, outcomes 
and revenues. They are integral to IT’s ability to 
deliver business results to the enterprise. An SP that 
fails to deliver results will create a business risk.”
4
In accordance with Gartner's definition, customers 
see vendors as strategic partners if they deliver 
effective systems and services that support the 
creation of value for the enterprise. Below is a figure 
which shows how an enterprise evolves step by step. 
First, from “simple” vendor management to strategic 
vendor management, and finally to strategic 
partnership management. Strategic partnership 
management is a new level of vendor relationship 
management. Managing strategic partnerships 
is a very different approach from the traditional 
strategic vendor management.
5
2. FROM IT VENDOR 
MANAGEMENT TO STRATEGIC 
PARTNERSHIP
Other
business
units
Vendor
IT
Other
business
units
IT
Strategic
partner
Other
business
units
Strategic
Vendor
IT
Indicates direct relationship
Note: Relative size of circles indicates extent of responsibility for business/enterprise risk
Source: Gartner
STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIP
VENDOR RELATIONSHIP STRATEGIC VENDOR RELATIONSHIP
EVOLUTION OF VENDOR RELATIONSHIPS
4. http://www.gartner.com/document/1727978 
5. http://www.gartner.com/document/1727978 
JOIN US ONWHITEPAPER
9
One of the main reasons why enterprises are 
evolving to strategic vendor management is that 
the price aspect is no longer the crucial key factor 
in the vendor selection process. The result of this 
change is that the vendor relationship model has 
switched to strategic business partnerships.
Strategic partnerships are more like processes, not 
occasional events. To establish strategic partnerships, 
the entire business environment has to evolve to a 
higher level of collaboration. The true effectiveness of 
strategic partnerships can be achieved only through 
the mutual development of complementary skills.
Here are some hallmarks which help to build  
a successful strategic partnership:
 n Get the basics right first. Being responsive 
and providing stable solutions and services are 
still the main factors of a successful strategic 
partnership. Customers should identify 
and remove obstacles that limit vendors' 
responsiveness and stability.
Małgorzata Zabieglińska – Lupa 
 n Communication is a two-way street. Com-
munication between customers and strategic 
partners still leaves a lot to be desired. The 
weaknesses of partnerships largely consist of 
one-sided communication.
 n Building trust. There is no long-term 
relationship without trust. Focus on building 
trust in relationship with your partners. 
 n Be process- and metrics-driven. Currently, 
business decisions are mostly data- and 
metrics-driven. The value for business needs 
to be quantified. Customers should focus not 
only on "hard" metrics, but also the "soft" side of 
relationship metrics.
 n Evaluating your relationship. Both parties, 
customers as well as vendors, should make 
sure the relationship is sustainable in terms of 
financial and strategic business objectives.
Strategic partnerships is more 
like process, not an occasional 
event.WHITEPAPER
10
Developing good relationships with vendors is 
not so complicated, but in real life where humans 
need to interact with each other it requires good 
interpersonal skills. Take the time to get to know 
your vendors, be communicative and tell them of 
your needs and standards.
One of the best practices is to maintain proactive 
and multi-level contact. You should start from 
establishing multiple points of contact at the 
vendor. Effective vendor relationship development 
depends on:
 n Effective communication with the vendor – this 
is the most important aspect, which helps to 
establish long-term and profitable relationships;
 n Timely and constant measuring of performance 
– this helps to analyze whether companies’ 
expectations have been met;
 n Understand how your vendor works - to create 
good partnerships you need to know as much 
about your vendors as the vendors know about 
you;
 n Clearly define roles and responsibilities at each 
level;
 n Share information intensively, but also selectively 
- keep vendors aware of what's going on in your 
company, about changes in key personnel, new 
products, special promotions and so on;
 n Formulate a vendor selection process for your 
company;
 n Choose vendor management models 
(centralized, decentralized or hybrid) which 
best suit your organization’s needs;
 n Centralized (company-wide) – vendor 
management functions managed and 
coordinated centrally;
 n Decentralized (business units, sites, region) 
– vendor management functions not 
managed centrally;
 n Hybrid – vendor management split across 
the organization; for example: contracts 
centrally, performance locally.
3. VENDOR MANAGEMENT TOOLS 
AND MECHANISMS
RELATIONSHIP DEVELOPMENT
Developing good relationships with vendors is not so complicated process, 
but in a real life where humans need to interact each other it requires 
good interpersonal skills. Take the time to get to know your vendors, be 
communicative and tell them of your needs and standards. In today’s 
world, managing the vendors is all about strengthening and developing 
relationships that can make your business.
Adam Tymofiejewicz
JOIN US ONContracts establish more than just terms and 
conditions. There are a number of different contract 
definitions. According to the simplest definition, 
contract management is the process of managing 
contracts from vendors, partners, customers or 
employees. The most complete definition is that 
“contract management is the process of managing 
contract creation, negotiation, execution and 
analysis to maximize operational and financial 
performance at an organization”
6
The main goal of contract management is to 
ensure that all contract participants fully meet their 
expectations and obligations in order to deliver the 
objectives required from the contract. One part of 
the contract management process is building a 
good business relationship between the client 
and service or product provider. Another part is 
to help your organization manage proactively in 
order to anticipate future needs, as well as reacting 
to situations that arise. The contract management 
process includes the following steps:
1. Enabling contract management. In this phase 
the contract management process begins by 
identifying contracts, the verification of roles, 
responsibilities and procedures.
2. Contract authorization. Writing a contract by 
hand is a time-consuming activity, but through 
the use of automated contract management 
systems the process can become quite 
streamlined.
3. Contract negotiation relies on the completion 
of the draft contract. Employees who take part 
in negotiations should be able to compare all 
versions of the contract. The main point is to 
ensure that the best possible contract is available 
to all sides.
4. Approving the contract. The instance in which 
most bottlenecks occur is getting management 
approval. Users can preemptively combat this by 
creating tailored approval workflows, including 
parallel and serial approvals to keep decisions 
moving at a rapid pace.
5. Execution of the contract. Executing the 
contract allows users to control and shorten the 
signature process through the use of eSignature 
and fax support.
6. Obligation management. This requires a 
great deal of project management to ensure 
deliverables are being met by key stakeholders 
and the value of the contract doesn’t deteriorate 
through its early phases of growth.
7. Revisions and amendments. Gathering all 
documents pertinent to the contract’s initial 
drafting is a difficult task. When overlooked items 
are found, systems must be in place to amend 
the original contract.
WHITEPAPER 11
CONTRACT MANAGEMENT
6. http://www.businessnewsdaily.com/4813-contract-management.html WHITEPAPER
12
 n the supplier is co-operative and responsive;
 n the organization understands its obligations 
under the contract;
 n there are no disputes (supported by no incon-
sistencies in the contract);
 n there are no surprises;
 n a professional and objective debate over 
changes and issues arising can be had;
 n efficiencies are being realized.
A good contract management process does not 
only ensure that the agreed terms and conditions of 
the contract are being met. This is just one step, but 
the first of many that should be taken. No matter 
how well the contract negotiation process runs 
and the scope of the contract, there will always be 
some tensions between the different perspectives 
of the customer and provider. The idea behind 
a good contract management process is about 
resolving these tensions as soon as possible to build 
a partnership relation with the provider.
These relationships should be based on mutual 
understanding, trust, open communication 
and benefits to both sides. In that way, contract 
management could be compared to project 
management, because each contract is like a mini-
project. It has unique goals, consumes resources, 
has a beginning and end date, and requires 
coordination and planning of relevant activities, as 
well as documentation in a contract file throughout 
the process. And each contract is different and 
should be treated separately.
8. Auditing and reporting. Contract management 
does not simply entail drafting a contract and 
then pushing it into the filing cabinet without 
another thought. Contract audits are important 
in determining both organizations’ compliance 
to the terms of the agreement and any possible 
problems that might arise.
9. Renewal. Using manual contract management 
methods can often result in missed renewal 
opportunities and lost business revenue. 
Automating the process allows an organization 
to identify renewal opportunities and create new 
contracts.
During day-to-day operations, you probably ask 
yourself why you should manage contracts. Your 
organization needs to manage contracts:
 n to achieve the agency’s business outcomes and 
deliver savings/efficiencies;
 n as part of the agency’s ongoing risk manage-
ment; and
 n to meet various governance, legislative and 
audit compliance requirements.
Successful contract management is more than 
just the management of documents, terms, 
conditions and a few signatures. Effective contract 
management relies on the implementation of 
successful post-award and upstream activities. 
Contract management is successful if
7:
 n the arrangements for service delivery continue 
to be satisfactory to both parties, and the 
expected business benefits and value for money 
are being realized;
 n the expected business benefits and value for 
money are being achieved;
7. http://www.cips.org/documents/CIPS_KI_Contract%20Management%20Guidev2.pdf
JOIN US ONGOVERNANCE AND 
STEERING MECHANISMS 
(INCL. KPIs)
A governance model describes the organizational 
structures and roles that project participants can 
take on and the process for decision making and 
reporting within the project. A lack of governance 
can be considered a major threat to proper vendor 
relationship management. The nature of the 
governance model covers the following elements:
 n Strategic – at this level, governance focuses on 
overall strategic performance, strategic KPIs 
and contract management;
 n Tactical – at this level, governance focuses 
on relationship, performance management, 
including penalty and incentive systems, mon-
itoring service improvement initiatives, escala-
tion process, contracting, financials and KPIs;
 n Operational – at this level, governance focuses 
on local day-to-day operational work.
To ensure efficient and effective periodic formal 
communication at the different steering levels, 
between all involved parties, meetings should be 
structured. This leads to a more constructive use of 
time.
Having clear communication lines between the 
client and vendor and assigning roles at each level 
is an important success factor of the cooperation 
between both parties. This is especially true if 
business processes are not working or some parts 
of agreements are unclear. That’s why both parties 
should have clear knowledge about communication 
flows and the first person of contact at each level. 
This helps to solve problems quickly. There are 
different meetings defined on operational, tactical 
and strategic levels.
 n Strategic Meeting – the purpose of this meet-
ing is to ensure that both sides’ objectives can 
be achieved in a balanced manner. For exam-
ple, meetings with regional boards.
 n Tactical Meeting – the purpose of this meeting 
is to assess whether the service portfolio con-
tinues to meet the current and future needs of 
the client.
WHITEPAPER 13WHITEPAPER14
 n Operational Meeting – the purpose of this 
meeting is to ensure the timely and smooth 
implementation of planned and ongoing proj-
ects, releases and changes in which the vendor 
is involved
 n Business Continuity Meeting – the purpose of 
this meeting is to discuss business continuity 
matters. (Business) Continuity Management 
makes sure the client’s business operations 
can continue during and after a disaster at an 
agreed level until normal business operations 
resume. Continuity management is also aimed 
at pro-actively preventing discontinuity and 
avoiding extended disruption.
 n Security & Compliance Meeting – the purpose 
of this meeting is to discuss new developments 
and the progression of affairs and activities 
concerning security and compliance in relation 
to the services the vendor will deliver under 
the agreement. These meetings could have an 
on-demand character and be triggered by the 
Tactical Committee.
Steering Mechanisms should consist of two areas:
 n Penalty and Incentive systems;
 n Performance Management together with Key 
Performance Indicators (KPIs).
First of all, we would like to concentrate on penalty 
and incentive systems. They should be reasonable, 
systematically applied, and anticipated by the 
supplier. In practice, penalty and incentive clauses 
should be included in the SLA (Service Level 
Agreement) as a critical part of any vendor contract. 
It should also be mentioned in the letter of credit 
(if applicable) and on purchase orders. It is very 
important to make sure the supplier is aware of 
penalty and incentive systems. This system should 
refer to the compensation agreement and penalty 
and incentive clauses that determine the level of 
vendor compensation. Below are five ways in which 
penalty and incentive systems can make for a better 
business:
 n Use penalties together with incentives – punish-
ment cannot be used effectively without incen-
tives. Penalties should be used to keep vendors 
on track. In the same way, incentives should 
be used as an encouragement to provide bet-
ter services or products. This will benefit both 
parties.
 n Communication is critical – all metrics and 
goals should be visible and clear to vendors. 
Additionally, regular communication helps 
both parties avoid potential threats.
 n Establish the escalation process, which is 
important to solve any critical issue as soon as 
possible.
JOIN US ONWHITEPAPER 15
 n Focus on your critical vendors – not all vendors 
are equal for your business. That’s why you 
shouldn’t try to apply penalty and incentive sys-
tems to all your vendors. The company should 
look at all high-risk vendors. An additional 
advantage is that the added attention will help 
you support and develop ongoing relationships 
with vendors.
 n Different goals for different vendors – if you 
have a large number of vendors across different 
industries, don’t use the same metrics and key 
performance indicators to review the level of 
provided services or goods.
Sometimes a penalty system is not the best solution 
for your business. Use alternatives to a penalty 
system to support the development of your vendor 
relationships:
 n Introduce a system of vendor rating for fairness 
and transparency;
 n Exclude vendors from your approved list of ven-
dors / suppliers;
 n Collaborative root cause analysis;
 n Timely planning of reviews and call off strate-
gies to solve problems;
 n A continuous vendor evaluation stage as part 
of the company procurement risk migration 
process;
 n Meeting vendors on a regular basis.
Last but not least, performance management. Here 
we would like to find the reasons why you should 
measure vendor performance, as well as what and 
how should be measured. Don’t forget - the vendor's 
performance must be monitored constantly from 
the beginning.
With increasing numbers of vendor relationships, 
it can be challenging for your organization to 
effectively monitor and manage each process. This 
should include the requirements that are most 
critical to your business. In order for the performance 
management process to be efficient and effective, 
you should implement and review it consistently. 
The vendor performance management process is 
an ongoing practice, definitely not a once-a-year 
task. It should show vendors the continual direction 
and feedback they need to improve and achieve. 
Here is a list of best practices in performance 
management
 n Performance metrics must be established for 
each critical element / service and should be 
set realistically in view of other performance 
requirements;WHITEPAPER
16
 n Metrics should also be maintained at an accept-
able required level of performance;
 n Vendor performance metrics should be subject 
to penalty and motivation systems;
 n Vendor performance metrics as the focal point 
of all performance measurement should be 
both quantitative and qualitative in nature and 
developed according to the value objectives of 
the relationship;
 n The most important of all metrics are Key 
Performance Indicators (KPI). KPIs should be 
defined and regularly evaluated under the 
contract.
Establishing effective metrics related to vendor 
performance management allows your business to:
 n Implement a future vendor selection process 
based on past performance metrics;
 n Implement penalty and incentive systems 
based on performance;
 n Adjust purchasing strategy based on accurate 
performance data;
 n Effectively evaluate vendor performance for the 
expected level of quality and standards;
 n Enforce expected service levels;
 n Improve processes so problems are anticipated 
and prevented.
In choosing effective metrics, decide what is most 
critical for your business. The most important goal 
of any vendor performance metric is to motivate 
the appropriate behavior of both the client and the 
vendor. Sometimes less means more. It is better for 
your business to avoid choosing too many metrics. 
All metrics produce a voluminous amount of data, 
so if you choose an excessive number of metrics, no-
one will have time to analyze them. Depending on 
the provided service, different types of metrics can 
be monitored. Below are some examples:
 n Priority 1/2/3/4 incidents are resolved within 
the hours as specified by the SLA: Resolution 
is measured as a percentage of incident tickets 
successfully closed within the defined target;
 n Service Level Availability / Unavailability: 
Availability is measured as the percentage of 
time a service should have been available vs. the 
Why measure 
vendor 
performance?
Deﬁning 
Acceptable Vendor 
Performance
Continually 
monitoring 
performance
Continual service
improvement
What should be
measure?
Implementing
vendor metrics
EFFECTIVE VENDOR PERFORMANCE
JOIN US ONWHITEPAPER
17
actual time the service was available per server 
(no average). Availability is counted as follows: 
the % that a service is below target is weighed 
in the formula of the average availability;
 n Defect rates: Numbers or percentages of errors 
in major deliverables. Examples: incomplete 
backups and restores, coding errors/rework, 
missed deadlines etc.;
 n Service and Change Requests delivered on 
time: The Service and Change Request (SCR) is 
measured by the number of SCRs delivered on 
time vs. the total number of SCRs;
 n Security: Measuring security metrics, such as 
anti-virus updates and patching, etc.;
 n Satisfaction: Measuring satisfaction metrics, 
such as stakeholder satisfaction and end-user 
satisfaction, etc.
Defining the right vendor metrics is just half 
way to success. To be useful, the metrics must 
define acceptable levels of vendor performance. 
The following factors ensure the effectiveness of 
performance measurement:
 n the vendor performance management process 
review is performed in a timely manner;
 n key stakeholders are engaged and support the 
process with agreed improvement plans and 
actions;
 n measures align with the service level defined in 
the contract.WHITEPAPER
18
EXAMPLES PERFORMANCE MEASUREMENT  
METRICS FOR VENDOR MANAGEMENT 8
8. “Vendor Management. Realizing Opportunities in the Financial Service Sector” Protiviti
VENDOR PERFORMANCE AND RISK REPORTS
INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL CONTROL, 
COMPILANCE, TEST AND QUALITY REPORT
FINANCIAL RISK
EXTERNAL NEWS / MANAGEMENT REPORT
 n Total annual spend (by 
vendor) 
 n Aggregate internal risk 
assessment score across 
services / contracts (by 
vendor)
 n Number of subcontractors 
violations by vendor type
 n Percentage of quality 
assurance nonconformance 
issues by vendor n Percent profit margin
 n Frequency of risk reporting
 n Vendor performance 
(on-time delivery, stc.)
 n Percentage of SLA 
nonconformance (incident 
resolution, on-time delivery, 
etc.)
 n Percentage of Wescalation 
issues (aged)
 n Number of full-time  
employees assigned  to the 
engagement / engagement 
spend
 n Available capacity dedicated 
to client
 n Percentage of invoices with 
price variance from contract
 n Number of occurrences of 
noncompilance to contract 
terms
 n Number of compilance 
nonconformance 
acceptances by vendor n Percent debt to equity
 n Percentage of negative 
news returns per quarter
 n Credit capacity
JOIN US ONWHITEPAPER
19
FINANCE AND COMMERCIAL MANAGEMENT
Financial Management covers the functions 
and processes responsible for managing vendor 
budgeting, accounting and charging requirements. 
It provides the business and vendor with the 
quantification, in financial terms, of the value of 
provided services and the value of assets.
First of all, we would like to concentrate on two 
aspects: pricing models and reporting. We will try 
to explore and understand that different pricing 
models exist in Vendor Management. Customers 
must use the right pricing model to meet their 
business objectives. They should remember that 
each pricing model has benefits and risks for both 
sides. Before choosing a right price model for your 
business, remember that the organization, not 
the provider, should define the pricing model. 
In addition, one of the most important factors in 
the context of pricing models is risk. Remember 
to make pricing model decisions early and revisit 
them often.
9
Below are six factors which play a key role in the 
decision making process with regard to pricing 
models:
 n Scope of work
 n Client involvement
 n Client – Vendor relationship
 n Revenue & Value
 n Risk
 n Transparency
The most commonly used pricing models:
 n Time and Materials Model (T&M) 10 – this model 
is based on labor supplied at negotiated labor 
rates (such as hourly, daily or monthly). The 
vendor is obliged to supply the appropriate 
skills for the work to be performed or meet 
deliverables, milestones, schedules or service 
levels. The provider is reimbursed for the cost of 
the materials used or other costs incurred, such 
as travel expenses.
 n Fixed Price Model – the model is based on a 
fixed amount, in preset periodic increments, for 
a fixed scope of work (SOW) at the completion 
of the project or when milestones are achieved.
 n Cost Plus Model – In the cost-plus model, 
customers pay the provider for the actual cost 
of doing the work, plus an additional negotiated 
profit margin.
 n Open Book Model - In the open book model, 
customers pay the provider for the actual cost 
of service delivery, plus an additional negotiated 
profit margin.
 n Gain-Sharing Pricing Model 11 – a pricing model 
based on the value delivered by the vendor 
beyond its typical responsibilities, but deriving 
from its expertise and contribution. This 
payment model is best for customers who want 
to create a true alliance with IT vendors. Both 
sides work together to obtain a common goal, 
that’s why the model encourages collaboration 
and creative problem-solving. On the other 
hand, the gain-sharing pricing model requires 
a high level of trust with equitable distribution 
9. “Pricing Model Definitions, Benefits and Risks for IT Services and Outsourcing Contracts”; Gartner 
10. “Pricing Model Definitions, Benefits and Risks for IT Services and Outsourcing Contracts”; Gartner
11. http://www.cio.com/article/2397240/outsourcing/4-new-it 
     -outsourcing-pricing-models-gain-popularity.htmlWHITEPAPER
20
should be a comprehensive plan for identifying and 
decreasing potential business uncertainties and 
legal liabilities.
Risk management is a risk-based approach to 
managing vendor relationships through:
 n Identifying potential risks
 n Risk prioritization
 n Analyzing risks and their potential impacts
 n Developing effective vendor risk management 
strategies
 n Vendor due diligence
 n Continuous risk and vendor monitoring / 
Ongoing risk management
RISK MANAGEMENT
Your successful business operations depend on 
suppliers, distributors and other third parties. You 
need to be confident about who you’re doing 
business with and what business you’re doing 
business with them.
According to Gartner’s definition, risk management 
in vendor management is “the process of ensuring 
that the use of service providers and IT suppliers 
does not create an unacceptable potential for 
business disruption or a negative impact on business 
performance. Vendor risk management technology 
supports enterprises that must assess, monitor 
and manage their risk exposure from third-party 
suppliers that provide IT products and services, or 
that have access to enterprise information.”
13
When an enterprise outsources business processes 
to an external vendor, sensitive data may be 
transmitted, stored and processed on both 
company and vendor networks. Risk management 
of potential risk and reward. Of course, it is not 
without significant upfront investment.
 n Incentive-Based Pricing Model 12 – a pricing 
model based on bonus payments. This model 
is for those vendors who are able to achieve 
specific performance levels above the contract's 
service level agreements. This model is often 
used together with a traditional payment 
method, such as time-and-materials or fixed 
price. This model is best for customers who are 
able to identify specific vendor investments in 
order to deliver a higher level of performance.
 n Consumption-Based Pricing Model (Unit-
based/ Use-based Model) – a pricing model 
based on amounts of services that customers 
use or consume. Costs are allocated based on 
actual usage (e.g., gigabytes of disk space used 
or help desk calls answered). This model is best 
for cloud computing providers. 
 n Shared Risk-Reward Pricing Model – the 
provider and customer jointly fund the 
development of new products, solutions and 
services with the provider sharing in rewards for 
a defined period of time.
12. http://www.cio.com/article/2397240/outsourcing/4-new 
-it-outsourcing-pricing-models-gain-popularity.html   
13. http://www.gartner.com/it-glossary/vendor-risk-management/
JOIN US ONVendor risk categories:
 n Financial risk (vendor unable to meet contract 
obligations due to financial difficulties)
 n Operational risk
 n Environmental / Market risk
 n Compliance risk (e.g.: violations of applicable 
laws, rules, regulatory mandates)
 n Business continuity risk
 n Geopolitical risk (country-specific factors, i.e. 
government, climate and politics) 
 n Technology / Information security risk
 n Reputation Risk (e.g.: negative public perception 
and opinion of vendors)
 n Service Delivery (vendor unable to meet client 
service standards or SLA parameters)Successful 
risk management strategies should include:
 n A contract which should have a clear description 
of what the vendor is to provide (i.e. deliverables 
and obligations), service levels required (i.e. 
SLAs), the financials of the relationship (e.g. 
prices, how billed, invoice disputes), and exit 
procedure (in case of the need to change 
vendor).
 n A contract outlining the business relationship 
between the organization and the business.
 n Consistent monitoring of vendor performance 
to ensure that contract stipulations are being 
met.
 n Guidelines regarding who will have access 
to what information as part of the vendor 
agreement.
 n Stipulations to ensure that vendors meet 
regulatory compliance guidelines for your 
industry, and methods to monitor this 
compliance.
WHITEPAPER 21WHITEPAPER
22
One of the initial phases of the vendor management 
cycle is the vendor selection process, which can be a 
very complicated and emotional process if you don't 
know how to successfully approach it from the very 
beginning. The vendor selection process consists of 
a multi-stage framework to evaluate not only what 
the supplier can do, but also the way it’s done. It’s 
important to know that the vendor management 
process takes some time and usually lasts between 
6 – 12 months. A good vendor selection process 
should consist of the following steps: 
4. THE SUCCESSFUL VENDOR 
SELECTION PROCESS
14. “Steps to select right Outsourcing vendor” OSF Global Services.
6
STEP 6: Choose
the Vendor
Conclusion
STEP 2: Find out all you 
need to know about 
the vendor – Plan the RFI
STEP 1: Deﬁne your objectives and goals
STEP 5: Proof
of Concept (PoC)
STEP 3: Prepare 
the RFP
STEP 4: Evaluate the response
VENDOR SELECTION 
PROCESS
JOIN US ON n STEP 1: Define your objectives and goals
 n STEP 2: Find out all you need to know about 
the vendor – Plan the RFI
 n STEP 3: Prepare the RFP
 n STEP 4: Evaluate the response
 n STEP 5: Proof of Concept (PoC)
 n STEP 6: Choose the Vendor Conclusion
If the scope to outsource is small or organization 
resources are limited, the aforementioned steps can 
be narrowed, i.e. by not conducting the RFI or RFP 
processes.
STEP 1:  
DEFINE YOUR OBJECTIVES AND 
GOALS
First of all, you should start with selecting a team of 
people who not only have knowledge and expertise 
in vendor management, but also have a common 
interest in this specific vendor selection process. 
Together with the team, you should analyze all 
business and technical needs. This is the toughest 
part, but success here will put you on the right track 
in selecting the right vendor. At the end of this stage, 
you should have defined the outcome (product, 
material or service) you want outsourced together 
with the technical and business requirements. 
Defining all these needs helps your company explain 
where you are right now, show where you want to be 
in the near future and how to get there. You should 
also specify what your business goals are through 
outsourcing. While formulating your objectives, 
remember to answer the following questions:
14
 n What do you want to outsource?
 n What type of outsourcing agreement are you 
looking for?
 n Fixed Price contracts (fixed project, fixed 
monthly recurrent fee)
 n Time and Material costs (i.e. agile projects)
 n Hybrid (Costs plus Fixed fee)
 n What are the nearshore and offshore outsourc-
ing locations that you are interested in?
WHITEPAPER 23
WHITEPAPER
24
 n What are your goals in outsourcing?
 n What services do you expect a vendor to 
provide?
 n How much do you plan to spend?
 n What are the risks associated with such an out-
sourcing agreement?
Selecting the type of outsourcing agreement is 
an important aspect of the vendor management 
process. The three definitions below present how 
different IT service consultants can measure their 
services to clients.
In Fixed Price contracts, both the price and the 
scope of work are set in the SOW and neither 
change without agreement from both parties. With 
Fixed Price contracts, the vendor is an IT professional 
who bears the risk. These types of agreements 
are negotiated usually where reasonably definite 
specifications are available, and costs can be 
estimated with reasonable accuracy.
Time and Material Cost contracts are agreements 
under which the client agrees to pay a set amount 
per hour (actual cost of direct labor) plus the actual 
cost of materials and equipment usage. Time and 
Material Cost contracts are typically contracts for 
construction, product development or any other 
piece of work. With Time and Material Cost contracts, 
the client bears the risk.
Hybrid forms of agreements are outsourcing 
agreements where portions of a Cost Plus agreement 
are combined with a Fixed Cost Agreement. The 
main idea is to provide the best of both types of 
agreement.
STEP 2:  
FIND OUT ALL YOU NEED TO 
KNOW ABOUT THE VENDOR – 
PLAN THE RFI
The vendor selection process would not be complete 
without listing the criteria that the vendor itself 
must meet. The Request for Information (RFI) shares 
information about the features or capabilities you 
are looking for in a vendor and helps you with the 
first rounds of vendor evaluations.
RFI should also help you with defining a shortlist 
of qualified vendors for the next step of selection. 
You can find potential suppliers through a variety 
of channels. It's best to identify as many third party 
vendor candidates as possible with consideration 
of the available resources to manage the selection 
process. Each of the selected vendors should receive 
the RFI from you. Based on the received responses, 
you will be able to create a shortlist of vendors.
STEP 3:  
PREPARE THE RFP
The next step is to develop the formal Request for 
Proposal (RFP). The RFP should be sent to at least 
three short-listed suppliers. After evaluation, you 
should select the best vendor that matches your 
requirements. Information collected during the 
second step of the vendor selection process should 
be included as the solution-requirements section of 
the related RFP. A good RFP sent to vendors should 
consist of the following information:
 n Introduction and Executive Summary
 n Brief project / service overview
 n Project goals and target audience
 n Instructions to vendors in terms of structure of 
the proposal, proposal language, contact for 
questions, timeline
 n Scope of Work & Deliverables
 n Business and technical requirements
 n Vendor profile
 n Expected vendor methodology
JOIN US ON n Infrastructure
 n Financial conditions
Here is the outcome which should be delivered by 
vendors:
 n Vendor profile (incl. vendor financial situation)
 n Technical Solution Architecture
 n Service Catalog (Scope of Work & Deliverables) 
and SLA levels
 n Service Implementation or Transition Project 
(incl. expectations toward client)
 n Track Record (references)
 n Pricing Matrix and Financial conditions
STEP 4:  
EVALUATE RESPONSE
Start by building an evaluation sheet based on 
the RFP (which again reflects your requirements). 
By providing a weight to each of the criteria and 
evaluating each vendor response against these 
criteria, you will get a total score per vendor. After 
you get the information you need, fill in as much 
of the evaluation sheet as possible. Your goal is to 
see if any vendor fails to meet your “must have” 
requirements.
STEP 5:  
PROOF OF CONCEPT (POC)
During the Proof of Concept (PoC) stage, you 
will have the opportunity to check the vendor’s 
actual capability to deliver the required services or 
products. This is also a good opportunity to get an 
overall impression of the vendors and check their 
‘soft factors’ (i.e. culture).
STEP 6:  
CHOOSE THE VENDOR 
CONCLUSION
After all the steps, it is now time to make your choice. 
Identifying and selecting the right vendor is crucial to 
a project’s success and the eventual adoption of any 
new system or process. Making the final decision 
means signing a contract. An outsourcing contract 
should clearly define the performance measures, 
team size, team members, pricing policies, time 
frames, regular reviews, business continuity plans, 
and overall quality of work standards.
Best practices for establishing a selection process 
include:
 n Determining the role that an RFP or RFI will 
play in the selection process;
 n Deciding on the appropriate documentation 
for the deal (contract, SOW, SLAs); and
 n Involving third party consulting firms in select-
ing the right vendor.
WHITEPAPER 25WHITEPAPER
26
The main objectives of vendor management are 
to help clients meet their business objectives, 
minimize potential business disruption, avoid deal 
and delivery failure, and ensure more-sustainable 
multi-sourcing, while driving the greatest value 
from their vendors. Good vendor management will 
accrue the following group of benefits:
Quality and performance improvement
1. Formalizing practices to measure and manage 
vendor performance through target policies, 
controls, processes, accountabilities and the 
governance structure;
2. Improving the time to market of new features, 
services or products by vendor governance, and 
the set of KPIs focusing on service agility;
3. The opportunity to engage suppliers and 
clients in a process of continual improvement 
of both products and services provided, and 
of the accompanying service levels; Fewer 
misunderstandings, less miscommunication 
and better communication with vendors by 
regular reviews and improvements in processes, 
communications and purchaser/vendor 
interaction;
4. Ensuring vendor processes and policies are 
compliant with the organization’s;
5. Improving internal and external information flow 
between all the players engaged in the vendor 
management process;
6. Experienced staff are released from problem 
solving to concentrate on core-business 
processes;
7. Increasing vendor performance with metrics.
If the scope to outsource is small or organization 
resources are limited, the aforementioned steps can 
be narrowed, i.e. by not conducting the RFI or RFP 
processes.
Cost optimization
1. Total cost reduction - lower costs for managing 
the long-term relationship and reduced costs 
through failures;
2. Management overhead reduction – your internal 
teams spend less time and more easily manage 
vendor relationships, existing contracts and 
negotiate new ones.
3. Risk reduction - fewer incidents, service failures 
or issues of poor performance, reducing main 
business process outages and disruptions;
4. Enabling the organization to proactively address 
issues before they become problems.
5. BENEFITS OF IMPLEMENTING 
VENDOR MANAGEMENT
JOIN US ONThe case is related to the financial services sector, 
where the client decided to select a provider to:
1. make a transition of IT services from the current 
offshore provider to a nearshore location in 
Europe;
2. deliver the managed platform as a service and 
technical application management.
Both business and IT stockholders were involved 
because the main driver for this project was the 
transition and transformation of one of the business 
lines. The selection process was supported by 
an external consulting company, which ensured 
structure and governance for the process.
BUSINESS AND  
IT CHALLENGE
There were many business obstacles (i.e. HR transfer 
of business analysts), as well as the following 
challenges related to the IT project.
1. Tight schedule due to business restrictions:
a. Selection and contracting: 3 months
b. Service Transition: 4-6 months
2. International team located in different locations 
spread around the world
3. Incomplete and outdated documentation
4. Outdated infrastructure (lack of life-cycle 
updates and upgrades)
5. Flexibility of volumes and prices
SOLUTION
Of course, we can look at these topics from different 
angles: technology, project and resources, service 
delivery, etc. However, focusing on the vendor 
management aspect, the following areas are very 
important and need to be monitored and managed.
6. CASE STUDY OF A FINANCIAL 
SERVICES IT OUTSOURCING 
PROJECT
WHITEPAPER 27WHITEPAPER
28
negotiate. It is important to prepare – during the 
contracting phase – agreements which can be easily 
managed after contract signing. I do recommend 
putting some “regular contract review” clauses/KPIs 
to Steering Mechanisms.
The governance helps the parties to understand 
the process/project, to identify responsibility, and 
defines communication flows. It is important 
to establish governance for each step of the 
process (selection, contracting, transition and/or 
transformation, delivery).
 n Who is the single point of contact?
 n How often should we hold project meetings 
and who should participate?
 n How can we escalate issues? Who should we 
contact in case of disputes?
 n What are the KPIs (i.e. meeting frequency, 
reaction time on escalations, etc.)?
Regardless of the answers, we strongly recommend 
making it simple, doable, and adjusting it to the 
specific needs. 
The Finance and Commercial area has many 
perspectives and dimensions. Focusing on the case, 
the main challenge was related to cost variability – 
correlate changing demand with capacity and costs 
(pay as you use model). Based on these criteria, a 
flexible pricing model was developed. However, 
during service delivery, additional governance 
mechanisms were added to control the current 
capacity utilization to better predict future costs.
In this area, it was important to have an adaptive 
approach, which provides flexibility and supports 
future demand changes (business upscale / 
downscale).
 n Relationship development
 n Contract management
 n Governance, Issue & Dispute Management
 n Finance and Commercial Management
In the aforementioned case, different stakeholders 
were involved in relationship development: client 
representatives (CIO, project manager and change 
manager, vendor manager, and procurement), a 
consulting company and the provider (account 
manager, IT architect, project manager and delivery 
manager).
Based on this experience, I can say that Relationship 
Development determines success in IT Outsourcing 
projects and is very important during each step of 
the process. 
 n During vendor selection, it supports the 
management of business expectations and the 
understanding of the client’s needs;
 n During the contracting phase, it helps to speed 
up the negotiation process through better 
communication;
 n During the transition project, relationship 
development helps to speed up the solution of 
issues and the removal of project obstacles;
 n During service delivery, it supports service 
improvement and alignment with the client’s 
needs and expectations.
Contract management is not just a contracting 
phase. This activity should be carried out before 
contracting – to prepare the contract structure, 
to identify potential show stoppers and areas to 
JOIN US ONCLIENT BENEFITS
We believe that proper vendor management 
(relationship development, contract management, 
Governance and finance and commercial 
management) is a key success factor for IT 
Outsourcing projects.
By executing that, the following was achieved in the 
case.
 n The IT Transition Project was finished on time, 
and the business could migrate the product 
line on time as well.
 n The platform was upgraded, so the risk of 
unavailability was reduced.
 n Service quality – confirmed by the end users  
– is very high
 n Demand and capacity management is 
executed, which helps to align costs with the 
business needs.
CASE STUDY TAKE AWAY
Here is a list of key elements related to vendor 
management, which have helped to successfully 
finish the project and start operations.
 n Building relations with the vendor
 n Establishing Governance
 n Defining goals and KPIs
 n Executing Vendor Management
WHITEPAPER 297. SUMMARY
In today’s rapidly changing business environment, global companies 
should constantly evaluate their strategic vendor relationships. As a 
customer, you should take a closer look at how your company manages 
its vendor relations, who your strategic partner is and what a successful 
vendor selection process should consist of.
The success of an outsourcing project is not signing a contract with 
vendors. Here, everything is just beginning. Your success depends 
much more on how well you can manage the process before and 
after signing the outsourcing contract. 
To increase your chances of success, you have to do two things.
 n Most importantly, having a truly successful business is based on 
building two-way trust. Trust is a basic condition for each successful 
cooperation. Based on years of our experiences, trust can take a long 
time to build and only one short moment to be destroyed. Without 
trust, real mutual understanding and effective collaborative work 
are compromised.
 n Secondly, you can't forget about communication in order to 
successfully manage projects. Don't assume that the vendor 
intimately knows your business or can read your mind. Don’t 
be afraid to share information and priorities with your partners. 
Of course, not all information, but information affecting your 
cooperation. Regular communication will avoid misunderstandings 
and proactively address issues before they become real problems.info@comarch.com           www.ict.comarch.com
Comarch, a global software provider, also offers reliable services related to IT infrastructure. Comarch outsourcing gives customers access  
to thirteen Data Centres located all around the world. Extensive international experience and the number of international offices allows the 
company to offer nearshoring services. The flexibility of our solutions convinced global brands, including Thomas Cook, Heathrow and BP,  
to establish a long-term cooperation with Comarch. For 22 years, the company has helped them to optimise business costs by using the latest 
technologies and ensuring the highest data security standards.
ABOUT COMARCH