  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE  
COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM 
U.S. DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION 
DEPARTMENTAL DIRECTIVE 
OM:  1-102 Page 1 of 12 (08/26/2016) 
Distribution:  
All
 Department of Education  
Employees 
Signed by:  Andrew Jackson 
Assistant Secretary for Management 
Delegations of Authority 
Table
 of Contents 
Delegations of Authority .................................................................................................. 1
II. Pur pose ................................................................................................................. 2
III. Po licy ..................................................................................................................... 2
IV. Aut horization .......................................................................................................... 2
V. App licability ............................................................................................................ 2
VI. Definiti ons .............................................................................................................. 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
VII. R esponsibilities ...................................................................................................... 4
VIII. Guidelines .............................................................................................................. 5
VIII. C riteria for Making Delegations .............................................................................. 6
IX. Content of Delegations/Re-delegations of Authority .............................................. 7
X. Cl earance Procedure for Certification of Delegations and Re-delegations ............ 9
Exhibit A - Page 1  (Sampl
e Delegation of Authority Memo) .......................................... 11
 
 
For technical questions regarding this directive, please contact Jim Clemmens at (202) 
205-3957. 
Supersedes OM: 1-102 “Delegations of Authority, dated 03/27/2012. OM:  1-102 Page 2 of 12 (08/26/2016) 
I. Pur pose 
This Directive sets forth the policy and procedures governing delegations and re-
delegations of authority. 
II. Po licy 
The policy of the U.S. Department of Education (ED) is to delegate decision-
making authority to the lowest organizational level possible to ensure prompt and 
effective administration of educational programs and management activities.  A 
delegation of authority is required for taking actions and making decisions that 
have legal significance.  The sources of authority are:  
1 Deleg ations issued by the Secretary or his/her delegatees;  
2 E D Dir ectives approved by the Secretary; the Deputy Secretary; the Assistant 
Secretary, or the Office of Management (OM);  
3 Classified position descriptions (see Section VII.C.); 
4 Approv ed functional statements;  
5 Human Capital Policy (HCP) formerly Personnel Manual Instructions; and  
6 Human Capital Memorandum (HCM) formerly Personnel Manual Bulletins. 
III. Aut horization 
Delegation authority is established in section 412 of the Department of Education 
Organization Act, Pub. L. 96-88, as amended (20 U.S.C.  3472). 
IV. App licability 
This Directive applies to all of ED's program and administrative activities, except 
for delegations of authority that are exclusively within the Office of Inspector 
General. 
V. Definiti ons 
A. Delegation of Authority is defined as the specific written transfer of 
authority from one official in ED (delegator) to another official in ED 
(delegatee).  The transfer of authority must be signed by the official 
authorized to delegate the authority.  Examples of functions that may be 
exercised only by the Secretary or his/her delegatees are: 
1. E nte ring into contracts, or cooperative agreements, or making grants; OM:  1-102 Page 3 of 12 (08/26/2016) 
2. Procu ring supplies and services; 
3. Publishing documents in the Federal Register; and 
4. Any other functions or authority assigned by law or regulation to ED, the 
Secretary, or other ED officials in which the exercise of such authority has 
legal significance. 
B. Re-delegation of Authority is a delegation of authority from the delegatee 
to another ED official. 
C. Administrative Delegation is a delegation of authority dealing with the 
administrative management of ED.  These authorities are generally bound by 
requirements imposed on the Secretary by one of the administrative 
agencies of the Federal Government, such as the Office of Management and 
Budget (OMB), the Office of Personnel Management (OPM), the Government 
Accountability Office (GAO), or the General Services Administration (GSA). 
D. Prog ram Delegation is a delegation of authority dealing with laws that 
establish the program responsibilities of ED. 
E. Position Delegation is a delegation of authority to a position by title. 
F. Personal Delegation is a delegation of authority to an employee by name 
and may not be exercised by anyone else. 
G. Delegator is an ED official who delegates specific authorities to another ED 
official. 
H. Delegatee is an ED official who is granted specific authorities from a 
delegator. 
I. Human Capital Memorandum (HCM) is a Departmental issuance which 
provides overall guidance for carrying out Human Resources (HR) 
operational procedures and HR program activities.  HCMs do not constitute 
the development of a Human Capital Policy. 
J. Human Capital Policy (HCP) is an official Departmental issuance which 
serves as ED’s overarching HR policy containing what is required by 
legislation, the President, the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) or the 
Secretary of Education to initiate, govern, or regulate actions/conduct  by the 
Principal Offices.  
These documents establish or describe policies, programs, and 
organizations; define missions; provide authority; and assign responsibilities.  OM:  1-102 Page 4 of 12 (08/26/2016) 
VI. R esponsibilities 
A. Assistant Secretary, OM 
1. Develops policies and procedures governing delegations of authority as 
outlined in this directive. 
2. Serves as Principal Delegation Control Officer and the primary delegator of 
administrative authority for ED. 
B. Principal Officers 
1. D esignate a Delegation Control Contact in the Principal Office (PO) to 
serve as liaison between the PO and the Departmental Delegations 
Control Officer (DDCO). 
2. Pr epare new delegations and re-delegations in accordance with the 
instructions contained in this directive. 
C. D elegation Control  Contacts (DCC) 
1. Ensure that each PO adheres to the policies and procedures for 
delegating and re-delegating authority.  In this capacity, the DCC reviews 
new statutes establishing or reauthorizing programs and Executive Orders 
that assign responsibilities to the Secretary to determine whether a 
delegation of authority should be prepared to rescind, amend, or 
supersede the current authorities. 
2. Serve as advisors and a source of information for their organizations. 
3. Provi de drafts of all delegations and re-delegations to the DDCO in OM’s 
Human Capital Policy and Accountability Division for review prior to the 
legal review by staff in the Office of the General Counsel (OGC). 
4. Af te r  reviewing the revisions requested by ED’s DCC and OGC, and 
preparing a final copy of the proposed delegation or re-delegation, obtain 
the signature of the delegator, and return the delegation to ED’s DDCO for 
certification. 
D. Departmental Delegations Control Officer (DDCO) 
1. Devel ops policies and provides advice to DCCs, administrative staff, and 
program officials on the effective administrative procedure for delegating 
authorities. OM:  1-102 Page 5 of 12 (08/26/2016) 
2. D esigns and maintains a system to control all delegations; develops and 
distributes semi-annual reports to DCCs that are validated and returned to 
the DDCO to update the records and to prepare the necessary 
delegations. 
3. Provi des information, as requested, on the status and content of 
delegations of authority. 
4. Review s all proposed delegations for format, conformity and consistency 
with existing delegations, and adherence to the policies and procedures for 
delegating and re-delegating authority. 
5. Certifi es delegations and re-delegations of authority. 
6. Mai n ta ins the Delegations website on connectED, which contains all 
current delegations, and is responsible for posting Principal Office 
delegations on ED.Gov. 
7. Mai ntains electronic and hard copies of delegations documents, and 
provide status reports, updates, and hard copy documents upon request. 
8. Review s draft directives, as requested, for delegation effect. 
E. Office of the General Counsel (OGC) 
1. Review s all delegations from the Secretary or Deputy Secretary for legal 
effect before signature by the delegator. 
2. Review s other re-delegations, if requested, for legal effect. 
VII. Guidelines 
A. When authority is delegated, the delegator retains the original delegated 
authority.  For example, when the Secretary delegated authority for the 
administration of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, as 
amended (ESEA) to the Assistant Secretary for Elementary and Secondary 
Education, the Assistant Secretary received authority to administer and carry 
out particular activities.  However, because the Secretary retains the 
delegated authority, either the Secretary or the Assistant Secretary may 
exercise authority pursuant to the ESEA. 
Except as provided for by law, re-delegation of authority is allowed for most of 
the authority vested in the Secretary.  However, any ED official to whom 
authority has been delegated by the Secretary may re-delegate only in 
accordance with the terms of the delegation from the Secretary.  Therefore, a 
re-delegation must contain the original reservations of authority unless OM:  1-102 Page 6 of 12 (08/26/2016) 
otherwise specified in the original delegation, and may contain additional 
reservations. 
B. Revisions of prior delegations or re-delegations are not necessary if only the 
title of the delegatee changes. 
C. Position descriptions may be used to re-delegate authority in cases where the 
supervisor of the delegatee holds the authority to be delegated and where the 
authority delegated is an essential part of the duties of the position. 
D. Examples include classification authority for individual classifiers and 
obligation authority for individual operating accountants. 
VIII. C riteria for Making Delegations 
A. The d ecision to delegate (or re-delegate) authority should be based on the 
following criteria: 
1. Legality.  Is the delegation allowed under applicable laws? 
Delegations  of authority may need to be issued when new, reauthorized or 
revised legislation is passed by Congress, signed by the President, and is 
sent to the Secretary of Education for implementation and administration.  
The Secretary usually delegates functions from the legislation to Principal 
Officers and employees of ED.  However, the delegated statute must be 
reviewed to ensure that there are no restrictions that would affect the 
delegation (for example, restrictions on what may be delegated, to whom 
the authority may be delegated, or procedures that must be followed in 
exerc isi ng the delegated authority). 
2. Nee d.  Will the delegation serve the objective of prompt, effective 
administration? 
If an existing delegation is amended , superseded, or rescinded, it is likely 
to affect any re-delegation of authority that previously had been issued. 
The revisions to the delegation may even implicitly void the existing re-
delegation.  For example, if the original source of authority for the re-
delegation no longer exists, or the authority originally re-delegated has 
been reserved from the delegator in the revised delegation, then there is 
no need for a revised re-delegation.  Therefore, whenever an existing 
delegation is revised, re-delegations of that authority should be reviewed  
to determine if any revision of the re-delegation is necessary. 
3. Eco no my and Administration.  Is the position to which the authority is to 
be delegated appropriate in terms of grade level and assigned 
responsibilities? OM:  1-102 Page 7 of 12 (08/26/2016) 
B. A s pa rt of the decision-making process, the delegator must consider whether 
the authority should be made to a position rather than to an employee by 
name.  Position delegations allow for persons serving in the position in an 
acting capacity, or on a temporary basis, to exercise the authority unless 
prohibited by terms of the delegation.  In contrast, if the delegation is 
addressed to a person, the delegation is automatically voided when that 
person leaves the position.  Position delegations are strongly recommended 
unless there is a sufficiently compelling reason for a personal delegation. 
IX. Content of Delegations/Re-delegations of Authority 
Preparation of Delegation and Re-delegation Documents.  A sample 
delegation of authority format is attached (Exhibit A).  Each delegation must 
include the following information: 
1 Organizational Element of Delegatee.  Show the official title of the position 
and level or organization to which the delegation is made, e.g., Director, 
Kindergarten Education Division.  Unless the delegation is a name delegation, 
do not include the delegatee's name in the delegation.  If the same delegation 
is made to more than one delegatee, indicate all position titles/organizations 
on one delegation document. 
2 Sub ject of Delegation.  Clearly explain the subject of the delegation.  If the 
delegation is amending the primary delegation, it should clearly state that fact 
and be identified by number (e.g., Amendment No. 1 to Primary Delegation of 
Authority).  
3 Rescission Information.  If the delegation cancels or supersedes any 
previous delegations of authority, the previous delegatee and the date and 
control number of the delegation should be cited and the previous delegatee 
should be sent a copy of the new delegation by the DDCO. 
Note:  If a given authority has been delegated previously and that record is 
not available, the following statement should be included.  "This supersedes 
all previous delegations of this authority." 
When a previou s delegation of authority has been superseded except for 
closeout activities, the delegation should be carefully written to say:  "Except 
for necessary closeout activities related to the former delegated authority 
within the scope of this delegation." 
4 Authority Delegated.  Indicate the specific authority delegated and the legal 
or other source of the authority.  Make sure the authority is absolutely clear 
and not subject to multiple interpretations.  If Federal laws are cited, identify 
them by reference to the specific title and section of the United States Code, if OM:  1-102 Page 8 of 12 (08/26/2016) 
possible.  Add the Public Law and section number if possible.  Otherwise 
provide sufficient information to be able to locate the authority:  the Statutes at 
Large citation, the public law section and number, the date enacted, and any 
other citation information.  If applicable, also refer to the appropriate ED 
directive, delegation of authority, or other document which vests authority in 
the delegator, citing the title, date and control number. 
If a re-delegation is "split" (e.g., when an A ssistant Secretary re-delegates 
responsibility for a law to a Division Director for program direction and policy, 
and to a Regional Director for administration), extreme care should be taken 
to ensure that both delegations contain sufficiently detailed descriptions of 
responsibility to ensure that no misunderstanding or confusion will occur. 
Attachments can be added to delegation documents, if needed, to clarify 
delegations.  Finally, each delegatee included in a "split" delegation should be 
sent copies by the DDCO of all delegations referencing th e  same law or 
subject. 
5 Reservation s, Exceptions or Conditions.  Indicate any reservations, 
exceptions or conditions relating to the delegated authority.  The law may 
require certain reservations.  Also, you may want to establish limitations on 
scope, duration, dollar amount, or other areas relating to the overall authority. 
The Secretary may require certain reservations.  For example, the Secretary 
reserves the right of authority to approve all reports to Congress or the 
President unless otherwise provided by law. 
Note:  If the document is a re-delegation, it is mandatory to include all the 
reservations, exceptions or conditions included in the original delegation to the 
delegator, unless otherwise specified in the original delegation.  If this 
requirement is not followed, a delegator could inadvertently re-delegate an 
authority that he or she does not have due to an omission of a restriction in 
the original authority.  If no reservations or exceptions exist, a statement to 
that effect should be included. 
6 Authority to Re-delegate.  You may re-delegate any authority or portion 
thereof unless your original authority precludes re-delegation.  However, if you 
wish to re-delegate authority outside of your chain of command, you must, 
unless otherwise specified, obtain the concurrence of an official who is above 
both you and the proposed delegatee.  If a delegator wants to re-delegate 
authority to another PO, this delegation must be reviewed and approved by 
the Chief of Staff, Office of the Secretary. 
7 Eff ective Date.  This sentence must be included in each delegation or re-
delegation of authority:  "This delegation [re-delegation] is effective on 
certification by the Department's Delegations Control Officer."  Delegations or 
re-delegations have no legal effect until certified. OM:  1-102 Page 9 of 12 (08/26/2016) 
8 Ratification.  If a delegation will not become effective until after the delegatee 
has already started performing the delegated authority, then the delegation 
should include the following sentence:  “I hereby ratify actions within the 
scope of this delegation taken by you prior to the date of certification.”  
9 Required Signature.  Each delegation forwarded to the DDCO for 
certification must contain an original signature of the delegator. 
10 Delegation Date.  Each delegation can be dated at the time it is signed by the 
delegator, but the effective legal date of the delegation is the certification date. 
X. Cl earance Procedure for Certification of Delegations and Re-
delegations 
A. Af ter delegations or re-delegations have been prepared in accordance with 
the criteria outlined in this directive, they must be forwarded to the DDCO, 
who reviews them for format, content, and redundancy, and for conflict with 
existing delegations of authority within ED. 
B. If t he proposed delegation appears to be in order, the DDCO forwards it to 
OGC for legal review.  OGC returns the cleared or revised delegation to the 
DDCO.  If it is a re-delegation, the DDCO decides whether an OGC clearance 
is necessary. 
C. The DDCO returns the delegation to the originating PO DCC for revision, if 
necessary. 
D. U pon receipt of the revised delegation, if revision was necessary, the DDCO 
obtains OGC's formal clearance by signature at the lower left-hand corner of 
the delegation memorandum. 
E. The DDCO forwards to the PO DCC, for signature by the delegator. 
F. Af ter the DCC returns the signed delegation, the DDCO forwards the 
delegation to the Executive Secretariat, if appropriate, for the Secretary's 
review and approval.  The DDCO works with the Executive Secretariat and 
OGC to revise the delegation, as needed.  After approval and signature by the 
Secretary, the DDCO certifies and dates the delegation or re-delegation.  The 
original of the certified delegation or re-delegation is kept in a central file in 
OM’s Office of Human Resources, Human Capital Policy and Accountability 
Division and certified copies are sent to the delegatee and OGC, along with 
information on any voided delegations. 
G. If t he delegation appoints an individual to serve as an acting Principal Officer, 
and that person’s name has also been submitted to the United States Senate OM:  1-102 Page 10 of 12 (08/26/2016) 
for confirmation, a copy of the certified delegation is sent to the Executive 
Resources Division, Office of Human Resources, to be filed in the nominee's 
personnel folder. 
  OM:  1-102 Page 11 of 12 (08/26/2016) 
Exhibit A - Page 1  (Sample Delegation of Authority Memo) 
TO: Director 
 Office of Early Learning (Title Only) 
FROM: Assi stant Secretary for Elementary and Secondary Education 
SUBJECT:  Delegation of Authority to Administer Preschool Development Grants  Under 
the Every Student Succeeds Act, Pub. L. 114-95 
I. D ELEGATION 
Under the authority vested in me by a delegation from the Secretary dated 
February 3, 2012, control number EA/ES/87 and a delegation from the Director 
of Risk Management Service dated April 11, 2008, control number EAR/ES/77, I 
hereby delegate to you the authority to administer the Department’s 
programmatic responsibilities under title IX, section 9212 of the Every Student 
Succeeds Act, Pub. L. 114-95 (42 U.S.C. 9831 note). 
II. R ESERVATIONS 
Unless otherwise noted in existing or future delegations of authority, the following 
are not delegated: 
A. Authority to promulgate regulations is reserved to the Secretary. 
B. Authority to submit reports to Congress or the President is reserved to the 
Secretary unless otherwise provided by law. 
C. Authority to award contracts and discretionary grants is reserved. 
D. Authority to approve state plans is reserved to the Assistant Secretary for 
Elementary and Secondary Education. 
III. RED ELEGATION 
Subject to the reservations contained herein, you may re-delegate any of 
the authorities delegated to you and authorize further re-delegation. 
(If the authority is not to be re-delegated, add the following statement:  “This 
authority may not be re-delegated.”)  OM:  1-102 Page 12 of 12 (08/26/2016) 
IV. CERTIFICATI ON AND EFFECTIVE DATE 
This delegation is effective upon certification by the Department's Principal 
Delegation Control Officer and supersedes all previous delegations of authority. 
 
(
Signature) 
OGC Clearance 