 
 
This message/document has been classified as “Public”          
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
solutions by stc 
 
Data Privacy Policy 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Doc. Code: PL.06.04 Dated: 03-04-2023 Version: 2.2 
Classification Public STC solutions  © 2023 Page: 1 of 21  
 
This message/document has been classified as “Public”          
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents 
1. Introduction .........................................................................................................................................................6 
2. Purpose ...................................................................................................................................................................6 
3. Scope .......................................................................................................................................................................6 
4. Responsibility ......................................................................................................................................................6 
5. Organizational Structure and Roles & Responsibilities .......................................................... 7 
6. Data Privacy Principles ................................................................................................................................ 11 
7. Data Privacy Policy Statements............................................................................................................. 12 
8. Custodian ............................................................................................................................................................ 18 
9. Conflict Resolution ....................................................................................................................................... 18 
10. Review and Update ........................................................................................................................................ 18 
11. Definitions .......................................................................................................................................................... 19 
12. Reference Documents ................................................................................................................................ 21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Doc. Code: PL.06.04 Dated: 03-04-2023 Version: 2.2 
Classification Public STC solutions  © 2023 Page: 2 of 21  
 
This message/document has been classified as “Public”          
 
 
 
Confidentiality Agreement 
The information contained in this document is the property of solutions and may not be copied 
or communicated to a third party or used for any purpose other than that for which it is supplied 
without the express written consent of solutions by stc . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Doc. Code: PL.06.04 Dated: 03-04-2023 Version: 2.2 
Classification Public STC solutions  © 2023 Page: 3 of 21  
 
This message/document has been classified as “Public”          
 
Document   Approval 
 
TITLE 
 
Chief Governance Officer 
GM, GRC & Cybersecurity (CS&P) 
Director, Enterprise Governance & Compliance 
Director, Cybersecurity and Privacy Management 
(CS&P) 
Manager, Data Protection and Privacy Office 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Doc. Code: PL.06.04 Dated: 03-04-2023 Version: 2.2 
Classification Public STC solutions  © 2023 Page: 4 of 21  
 
This message/document has been classified as “Public”          
 
 
LIST OF ACRONYMS USED  IN THIS DOCUMENT 
 
DPO 
 
Data Privacy Officer 
 
DPPO 
 
Data Protection and Privacy Office 
 
NDA 
 
Non-Disclosure  Agreement 
 
DP 
 
Data Privacy 
 
CS 
 
Cybersecurity 
 
PIA 
 
Privacy Impact Assessment 
 
SOLUTIONS 
 
solutions by  STC 
 
BUs 
 
Business Units 
 
FUs 
 
Functional Units 
 
CST 
 
Communications Space and Technology  Commission 
 
CS&P 
 
Cyber Security and Privacy Management 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Doc. Code: PL.06.04 Dated: 03-04-2023 Version: 2.2 
Classification Public STC solutions  © 2023 Page: 5 of 21  
 
This message/document has been classified as “Public”          
 
 
1. Introduction 
The Data Privacy Policy is part of the Data Privacy Program within solutions that sets the 
management intentions for upholding privacy rights of the customers, suppliers, contractors, 
employees, candidates, and visitors  through the entire  lifecycle of personal data  i.e., data 
collection, storage/retention, use/processing and deletion or disposal. solutions recognizes that a 
consistent, repeatable, and sustainable approach to data privacy is therefore necessary to ensure 
secure and lawful handling of personal data within solutions’ environment. 
The Privacy Policy may be provided upon request under a Non -disclosure Agreement to customers 
or other third parties who have a need to understand our commitment to   privacy. 
 
2. Purpose 
This policy outlines principles and statements on how solutions collects, processes, and uses 
personal data in compliance with applicable requirements around data privacy. Supplemental 
policies, practices and Governance documents shall be developed, as needed, to meet the 
regulatory data protection requirements which may provide for more strict or specific privacy and 
protection standards than those that  are set forth in this policy. 
 
3. Scope 
This policy is applicable to all relevant entities having accountability and/or responsibility for 
processing personal data within solutions by stc (collectively "solutions" or “Company”) including 
BUs/FUs, employees, vendors, consultants, business partners and contractor personnel regardless 
of their geographic location. 
4. Responsibility 
 
4.1 The CS&P is responsible for reviewing/ updating and monitoring compliance with this  
Data Privacy Policy 
4.2 Each Business Units/ Function Units (BU/FU(s)) are responsible to implement, and maintain 
the DP requirements as applicable to their operations in accordance to this policy and the DP 
mandates/operating model. 
4.3 All Users are responsible to comply with this policy.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Doc. Code: PL.06.04 Dated: 03-04-2023 Version: 2.2 
Classification Public STC solutions  © 2023 Page: 6 of 21  
 
This message/document has been classified as “Public”          
 
5. Organizational Structure and Roles & Responsibilities 
solutions shall define and document Data Privacy Governance Structure and related roles and 
responsibilities for effective management and implementation of the Data Privacy Program. 
 
Figure 1. Data Privacy Governance Structure 
5.1 solutions’ CS&P steering committee includes executive management; comprised of CEO, 
Chief Governance Officer other BU/FU Chiefs or their respective delegates. 
5.2 The Chief Governance Officer shall be solutions’ executive management member with DP 
mandates and accountabilities to govern overall DP programs activities and initiatives 
across solutions. 
5.3 The Data Privacy Officer (section Manager of DPPO) shall lead the DP Program and act as DP 
subject matter expert (SME) across solutions. 
5.4 Data Privacy Officer shall present the DP matters to the CS&P steering committee via DRM 
executive meeting chaired by CEO or his delegate; as and when DPPO needs briefings, 
support and/or directions; at least once in every quarter. 
5.5 The minutes of  meetings shall be performed by Corporate Performance Management team and 
shared with Data Privacy Officer, as needed, where the DRM meetings utilized as CS&P 
Steering committee meetings. 
5.6 The CS&P Director or  Data Privacy Office shall present the DP matters  to the CS&P steering 
committee. 
Note: Please refer Section ‘11 – Definitions’ for brief description on DRM (Direct Report 
Management) and CS&P Working Committee 
 
Doc. Code: PL.06.04 Dated: 03-04-2023 Version: 2.2 
Classification Public STC solutions  © 2023 Page: 7 of 21 
 
 
This message/document has been classified as “Public”          
 
5.7 The table below include the key  DP Governance roles and responsibilities at solutions’: 
 
Role Responsibilities 
CS&P steering 
committee 
 Overall guidance of Governance and Oversight of Data Privacy Program 
within solutions.
 Ensuring establishment of Data Privacy Vision, Mission, and Data Privacy 
Objectives for solutions.
 Provide direction and support for development of Data Privacy Strategy 
and Data Privacy Framework.
 Provide adequate resources and support for DP Program.
 Communicating the importance of effective Data Privacy Program 
Management and
 conforming to the policy’s requirements which are achieved through 
awareness
 Refresher programs and induction programs.
 Providing direction and support to staff to contribute to the 
effectiveness of the Data Privacy Program.
Data Privacy 
Officer (DPO) 
 Responsible for developing, initiating, and enforcing data privacy 
program organizational wide.
 Establish and maintain data privacy policies, standards, procedures, and
processes to be set as a governance model 
 Monitor compliance of solutions with applicable laws/ regulations in 
relation to data privacy;
 Develop, establish, and maintain data privacy culture and hygiene 
practices across solutions and its subsidiaries and customers, where 
applicable.
 Develop and maintain proper alignment with stc’s data privacy policies, 
mandates, and program
 Develop, draft and maintain data privacy objectives, framework and 
policies in alignment with the methodologies and mechanisms 
established by Enterprise Governance.
 Establish Data Privacy Risk Management within solutions;
 Oversee the Privacy Incident Management within solutions including 
handling potential data  breaches;
 Alert the stakeholders to any risks that might arise  about personal data;
 Act as a contact point for requests from Data Subjects regarding the 
processing of their personal data and exercise of their rights;
 Liaise Cooperate with regulators in matters concerning data protection.
 
Doc. Code: PL.06.04 Dated: 03-04-2023 Version: 2.2 
Classification Public STC solutions  © 2023 Page: 8 of 21  
 
This message/document has been classified as “Public”          
 
 
  Act as Data Privacy subject matter expert (SME) across solutions and its 
subsidiaries. 
 Provide regular and timely update on the status of Data Privacy program 
initiatives, key privacy risks, compliance issues, and metrics to such as 
stc, CS&P Steering Committee, AC, sector meeting etc. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Data 
Protection and 
Privacy Office 
(DPPO) 
 Support the Data Privacy Officer in developing data privacy processes, 
procedures, standards, and policies.
 Guide DP SPOCs and monitor development and maintenance of 
Personal Data Inventories and Data Flow Maps.
 Carry out periodic compliance assessments to monitor compliance of the 
solutions' with applicable laws/ regulations in relation to data privacy 
and protection.
 Carry out periodic risk assessment across solutions to identify potential 
privacy risks and maintain risk registers.
 Support the Data Privacy Officer in monitoring the remediation of risks 
and non-compliances (NCs).
 Conduct privacy impact assessments where applicable.
 Support the Data Privacy Officer and provide SME support to DP SPOCs 
in fulfilment of DSAR requests.
 Carry out privacy incident response handling activities.
 Support the Data Privacy Office in addressing queries from stc and 
regulators concerning Data Protection.
 Provide Data Privacy subject matter expert (SME) support across 
Solutions and its subsidiaries.
 Support the Data Privacy Officer to provide regular and timely update on 
the status of Data Protection and Privacy program initiatives, key privacy 
risks, compliance issues, and metrics to such as stc, Management& DRM, 
AC, sector meeting.
BU/FU Heads  Ensuring that the resources needed for the data privacy program are
available 
 Communicating the importance of effective data privacy program 
management and conforming to the policy’s requirements
 Providing  direction  and   support  to   staff   to   contribute   to    the
Effectiveness of the data privacy program 
 Oversee the overall effectiveness of solutions’ data privacy program
 Periodically monitor the compliance of the data privacy program to 
applicable  privacy laws/ regulations
 
 
Doc. Code: PL.06.04 Dated: 03-04-2023 Version: 2.2 
Classification Public STC solutions  © 2023 Page: 9 of 21  
 
This message/document has been classified as “Public”          
 
 
  Ensure adequate guidance and support for treatment of data privacy 
risks and non-compliances to solutions including risk acceptance. 
CS SPoC  Serve as a Point of Contact within the Technology function for DP 
matters
 Work with respective Technology/Asset owners to implement adequate
privacy controls to support the DP Program 
 Support implementation of technical controls required for privacy 
risks/NC mitigation
 Integrate Privacy requirements into system/software development 
lifecycle and Technology Change Management Programs
 Support DPPO to conduct Go-Live assessments including PIA for 
Technology  products  and services
 Support respective departments in fulfilment of DSAR requests
 Involve DPPO that require SME support and guidance from DPPO
 Perform implementation of required data protection and privacy 
enhancing technologies
DP SPoC  Serve  as  a  primary Point of  Contact within each department  (Non-
Technology Functions) for DP matters 
 Develop, review, update, and maintain personal data inventories and data 
flow maps
 Work with the DPPO to identify and document the lawful basis against 
each data processing activity
 Support DPPO in conducting data privacy risk management exercises
 Identify risk owners, support risk acceptance, ensure implementation of 
risk treatment plans and monitor risk status
 Support DPPO to identify potential high-risk processing activities that 
require PIA and support PIA  exercise
 Work with team members to ensure timely fulfilment of data subject 
requests assigned by DPPO
 Support   compliance    assessments   and performance   monitoring 
exercises conducted by DPPO
 Track and ensure timely completion of data privacy training and 
awareness  sessions within   respective department
 Manage and address queries received from team members on matters 
related to data privacy
 Support other CS&P sections and DPPO during investigation of data 
privacy incidents  and data breaches
 
 
Doc. Code: PL.06.04 Dated: 03-04-2023 Version: 2.2 
Classification Public STC solutions  © 2023 Page: 10 of 21  
 
This message/document has been classified as “Public”          
 
 
6. Data Privacy Principles 
solutions has adopted the following principles to govern the lifecycle of personal data and to 
uphold the privacy rights of Data Subjects: 
 
6.1 Lawfulness, Fairness, and Transparency 
Personal Data shall be processed lawfully, fairly, and in a transparent manner. 
6.2 Data Minimization 
Processing of personal data must be adequate, relevant, and limited to what is necessary 
in relation to the purposes. 
6.3 Purpose Limitation 
Personal Data shall be obtained only for specified, explicit, lawful, and legitimate purposes, 
and shall not be further processed in any manner incompatible with those purposes. 
6.4 Accuracy 
Personal Data shall be accurate, complete, and current as appropriate for the purposes for 
which they are collected and/or processed. 
6.5 Storage Limitation 
Personal data should be kept only as long as is necessary for the purposes for which the 
data is processed or within the limit of applicable regulations for regulated products. 
6.6 Integrity and Confidentiality 
Personal data should be processed in a manner that ensures appropriate Integrity and 
confidentiality of the personal data. 
6.7 Compliance with Regulatory Requirements 
Personal data should be processed in accordance with the approved policies, standards, 
procedures, and applicable data privacy laws and regulations. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Doc. Code: PL.06.04 Dated: 03-04-2023 Version: 2.2 
Classification Public STC solutions  © 2023 Page: 11 of 21  
 
This message/document has been classified as “Public”          
 
7. Data Privacy Policy Statements 
7.1 Overview 
solutions’ DP Framework is aligned to leading standards and applicable regulations. The 
below figure provides an illustration of solutions’ DP Framework. 
 
 
The below section provides details of the personal data domains and protocols which 
form the pillars of solutions’ DP Program and initiatives: 
7.2 Data Privacy Governance, Risk & Compliance 
7.2.1 Data Privacy Officer (DPO) shall be appointed and shall be responsible for privacy 
governance, risk, and compliance of privacy related activities and shall be 
independent of conflicting duties. 
7.2.2 Solutions shall appoint a Personal Data Protection Officer (PDPO) considering the 
nature of processing activities carried out within solutions and where such 
appointment is mandatory under applicable local/ global privacy laws and regulations. 
7.2.3 DPO shall be equipped with the resources, support and training required to perform 
his/ her role. 
7.2.4 DPO shall make his information (name and contact details) accessible and 
communicated to all relevant stakeholders. 
7.2.5 DPO shall develop and maintain the data privacy strategy that defines the vision, 
mission, goals, objectives tailored to the organization's context and helps meet 
the needs and expectations of internal and external stakeholders. 
7.2.6 DPO shall develop an actionable roadmap to operationalize the strategy, ensure 
compliance, enable business objectives, meet stakeholder needs and enhance 
program maturity. 
 
 
 
Doc. Code: PL.06.04 Dated: 03-04-2023 Version: 2.2 
Classification Public STC solutions  © 2023 Page: 12 of 21 
 
 
This message/document has been classified as “Public”          
 
7.2.7 DPO shall develop and establish the data privacy governance and operating model to 
further detail the data privacy roles and responsibilities; formally allocated and 
accepted across solutions. 
7.2.8 DPO shall establish a data privacy risk management framework that is integrated into 
the enterprise risk management program, to proactively identify and manage data 
privacy risks within solutions. 
7.2.9 DPO shall establish a data privacy compliance program to periodically review and 
monitor solutions compliance to this policy and applicable legal and regulatory 
requirements for collecting, processing, or maintaining personal data. 
7.2.10 DPPO shall support the DPO in carrying out periodic risk and compliance 
assessments aligned with the established framework and shall be responsible for 
monitoring the remediation activities. 
7.2.11 DPO shall establish a data privacy training and awareness program to ensure all Users 
shall receive proportionate awareness to their expected role in the data privacy 
program. 
7.2.12 DPPO shall carry out periodic training and awareness programs for solutions 
employees and contractors. 
7.2.13 DPO shall periodically develop, review, and maintain procedures and guidelines 
aligned to this policy to govern, manage, and operate the data privacy program. 
 
7.3 Personal Data Collection 
7.3.1 BU/FU Heads of solutions shall ensure that any personal data collected is adequate, 
relevant, and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are 
collected. 
7.3.2 If personal data is collected directly from the Data Subject, solutions shall: 
7.3.2.1 Provide a concise, transparent, intelligible, easily accessible, and adequate 
notice to the Data Subject (employee/ customer/ vendor/ candidates) in 
physical or electronic format. The notice shall be written in clear and plain 
language. 
7.3.2.2 Notify the Data Subject if there is a change in the purpose of data 
collection. 
7.3.2.3 These disclosures shall be given as soon as possible, and preferably at the 
first point of contact with the Data Subject. 
7.3.2.4 Provide the Data Subject the right to access personal data which include 
viewing and copying without any charge. 
7.3.2.5 Provide the Data Subject the right to modify and update the personal data. 
7.3.3 If personal data is collected from someone other than the Data Subject in case of Joint 
Data Controllers, solutions shall notify the Data Subject of the  following, unless the 
Data Subject has received the required information by other means. 
7.3.3.1 The fact of the collection, processing, or transfer of the data by the Joint 
Data Controller. 
7.3.3.2 The nature and purposes of the processing. 
7.3.3.3 The recipients or categories of recipients of the data; and 
7.3.3.4 The origin of the data. 
7.3.4 DP SPOCs shall work with respective departments to maintain records to document 
the processing activities under its responsibilities. 
7.3.5 These records shall be maintained using personal data inventories and data flow 
diagrams (DFDs). 
7.3.6 DP SPOCs shall develop, update, and maintain personal data inventories and DFDs. The 
personal data inventories and DFDs shall be reviewed, updated, and approved 
periodically or in the event of any changes to the processing activities. 
 
 
Doc. Code: PL.06.04 Dated: 03-04-2023 Version: 2.2 
Classification Public STC solutions  © 2023 Page: 13 of 21  
 
This message/document has been classified as “Public”          
 
7.3.7 DP SPOCs shall periodically review personal data collection channels to minimize the 
collection and processing of personal data from Data Subjects. 
 
7.4 Choice and Consent 
7.4.1 Respective departments responsible for collection and processing of personal data 
shall obtain and record consent from Data Subjects according to the established 
consent management practices. 
7.4.2 Respective departments shall communicate any choices available when personal data   
is collected or used by a third party or disclosed by solutions to such parties. 
7.4.3 As part of Consent Management, solutions shall ensure the following: 
7.4.3.1 Consent shall adhere to the principle of freely given, specific, informed, and 
unambiguous indication of data subject, which means the data subject has   a 
genuine ongoing choice and control over how solutions shall use their data. 
7.4.3.2 Request the consent of the data subject using the type of consent (opt-out 
or opt-in) that is required or appropriate. 
7.4.3.3 Ensure that the choices provided to data subject are complete and clear 
(e.g., how to "opt-out"). 
7.4.3.4 Inform data subjects of the consequences for failing to con sent or to 
provide their data. 
7.4.3.5 Obtain new consent if personal data will be used for a purpose other than 
originally disclosed to the data subject. 
 
7.5 Use, Retention&  Disposal 
7.5.1 BU/FU Heads shall ensure processing of personal data is conducted with due regard 
to the privacy, dignity, and equality of Data Subjects. 
7.5.2 Respective departments shall not process personal data in the absence one of the 
following valid business and legal basis: 
7.5.2.1 Data Subject has provided valid consent for the processing of their 
personal data. 
7.5.2.2 Processing is necessary to fulfil solutions contractual obligations towards 
the Data Subject or an organization 
7.5.2.3 Processing is necessary to fulfil solutions legal obligations towards a 
government or regulatory authority. 
7.5.2.4 Processing is necessary to protect vital interests of the data subjects or of 
another person, in the public interest, or in the exercise of official authority 
vested in the controller 
7.5.2.5 Processing is necessary to protect the legitimate interests of solutions. In 
such cases, care shall be taken to not pose high risk to data subjects, and to 
protect the interests and rights of data subjects. 
7.5.3 Respective departments shall not process sensitive personal data in the absence of 
the  following  valid business and  legal basis: 
7.5.3.1 Such processing is specifically authorized or required by law. 
7.5.3.2 The Data Subject has provided explicit consent to such processing. 
7.5.3.3 Where the Data Subject is physically or legally incapable of giving consent, 
but the processing is necessary by law, for example but not limited to: 
protecting the vital interest of the Data Subject, Support law suits/ 
litigations, and Employment. This exemption may apply, for example, where 
emergency medical care is needed. 
 
 
 
Doc. Code: PL.06.04 Dated: 03-04-2023 Version: 2.2 
Classification Public STC solutions  © 2023 Page: 14 of 21  
 
This message/document has been classified as “Public”          
 
7.5.3.4 Processing is necessary for reasons of public interest in public health, such 
as protecting against serious cross -border threats to health or ensuring 
high standards of quality and safety of health care. 
7.5.3.5 Processing is necessary for the establishment, exercise, or defense of legal 
claims. 
7.5.3.6 Processing relates to personal data which are manifestly made public by the 
Data Subject 
7.5.4 As a Data Controller, respective departments shall only use the personal data for the 
purposes the data subject has been made aware of in the privacy notice provided to 
them. 
7.5.5 DP SPOCs shall conduct periodic reviews to verify and ensure that divisions and 
departments that collect/ process personal data appropriately are in compliance with 
privacy notices, contracts, and this policy. 
7.5.6 Employees or Users of Personal Data at  all levels shall apply the following  while 
processing personal data: 
7.5.6.1 Collection and use of personal data shall be avoided or limited when 
reasonably possible. 
7.5.6.2 The purpose(s) of the collecting or processing of personal data shall be 
expressly identified by the division or department preparing any new or 
expanded data collection and processing activity or function. 
7.5.7 DP SPOCs and CS&P SPOCs shall ensure to implement reasonable processes to 
monitor the quality of the personal data it stores/processes as per the solution’s 
Enterprise Data Governance policy. 
7.5.8 BU/FU Heads shall define the retention schedule of all personal data stored and 
processed by their respective departments. Data retention must be identified  as per 
the solution’s Enterprise Data Governance policy. 
7.5.9 Personal Data shall not be retained longer than required for the purpose it was 
collected for aligned to legitimate business requirements, and applicable laws and 
regulatory requirements. However, personal data can be kept for a longer period in 
case of availability of statutory justification  or if personal data connected directly to 
an open case judicial body. 
7.5.10 Personal Data shall be erased if their storage violates any of the data p rivacy 
principles or if knowledge of the data is no longer required by solutions or for the 
benefit of the Data Subject. 
7.5.11 Personal Data shall be blocked and restricted, rather than erased, insofar as the 
law/regulation prohibits erasure, erasure would impair legitimate interests of the 
Data Subject, erasure is not possible without disproportionate effort due to the 
specific type of storage, or if the Data Subject disputes that the data is incorrect, and 
it cannot be ascertained whether they are corrector incorrect. 
7.5.12 Disposal  of personal data shall be handled with utmost care and shall be governed by 
the solution’s Enterprise Data Governance policy. 
 
7.6 Privacy by Design (PbD) 
7.6.1 DPPO under supervision of the Data Privacy Officer shall establish a process to 
proactively embed privacy requirements into the system architecture and product/ 
service/  software development lifecycle. 
7.6.2 Considerations shall be made for technical land organizational measures to 
enhance privacy (e.g. data obfuscation/anonymization, data minimization etc.). In 
addition, appropriate technical and organizational measures shall be considered to 
ensure that personal data collected or processed is adequate, relevant, and limited 
to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are processed. 
 
 
Doc. Code: PL.06.04 Dated: 03-04-2023 Version: 2.2 
Classification Public STC solutions  © 2023 Page: 15 of 21  
 
This message/document has been classified as “Public”          
 
7.6.3 Privacy Impact Assessments (PIAs) shall be carried out on processing activities that are 
likely to result in a high risk to data subject’s privacy, rights, and interests. 
7.6.4 Procedures shall be developed to elaborate the criteria, triggers, checklists, and 
methodology for conducting PIAs 
7.6.5 PIAs shall be performed for any new launch or major changes made to major products/ 
services/ technology, which require the processing of personal data. 
 
7.7 Personal Data Transfers 
7.7.1 Transfer of personal data outside the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia shall be restricted in 
accordance   with applicable laws and regulatory requirements. 
7.7.2 For exceptional situations where, personal data requires to be transferred outside KSA, 
appropriate mechanisms shall be followed as required by applicable laws and 
regulations. 
 
7.8 Disclosure to Third Parties 
7.8.1 Data Privacy Officer shall establish a Vendor Management process to manage data 
privacy risks associated with use of third-party vendors  which include: 
7.8.1.1 Conducting appropriate data privacy due-diligence prior to on-boarding new 
third-party vendors. 
7.8.1.2 Including data privacy responsibilities and obligations as part of contracts 
signed with third -party vendors including clear instructions around how 
personal data shall be handled. 
7.8.1.3 Based on relevant laws and regulations periodic privacy compliance reviews of 
third-party vendors. 
7.8.2 Respective departments shall clearly notify Data Subjects regarding the category of 
third parties along with purposes for personal data disclosure. 
7.8.3 Personal data shall be shared to third party vendors only for reasons consistent with 
the purposes for which the data was originally collected or other purposes 
authorized by law. 
 
7.9 Security of Personal Data 
7.9.1 CS&P is responsible to develop and maintain CS policies/ standards/ frameworks 
aligned to applicable regulatory requirements and leading practices. 
7.9.2 CS&P shall assess the data protection and handling measures in accordance to 
Information Classification and Handling Cybersecurity Standard implemented to 
safeguard personal data on a regular basis and update the same, where required. 
7.9.3 DPPO should support Risk & Compliance to identify key data security requirements 
aligned to applicable data privacy laws/ regulations to ensure adequate protection of 
personal data processed within solutions. 
7.9.4 CS&P SPOCs and DP SPOCs shall work with respective departments to implement 
adequate technical and organizational safeguards, in line with this policy, CS 
policies/standards/frameworks and operating models published by CS&P. 
7.9.5 Employees and contractors shall adhere to solutions’ internal CS policies, practices and 
any additional guidance issued around personal data protection by CS&P. 
7.9.6 Confidentiality agreements & NDAs covering data protection and privacy 
responsibilities shall be signed by all employees & contractors on or before their 
joining date. 
7.9.7 Employees, contractors, and third-party vendors involved in any stage of processing 
personal data shall explicitly be made subject to a requirement of secrecy 
which shall continue after the end of the employment/business relationship. 
 
Doc. Code: PL.06.04 Dated: 03-04-2023 Version: 2.2 
Classification Public STC solutions  © 2023 Page: 16 of 21  
 
This message/document has been classified as “Public”          
 
7.9.8 Employees, contractors, and third -party vendors shall have access to the personal 
data necessary for the fulfilment of their employment/ contractual duties. 
7.9.9 CS&P shall assess the security measures implemented to safeguard the overall 
organization on a regular basis and update the same, where required. This assessment 
is applicable to safeguard measures that directly/indirectly affect personal data. 
7.10 Data Subject Rights 
7.10.1 Data subjects shall have the right to: 
7.10.1.1 Request access to copies of their personal data. 
7.10.1.2 Request information on the processing activities carried out with their 
personal data. 
7.10.1.3 Request that their personal data is rectified if it is inaccurate or incomplete. 
7.10.1.4 Request erasure of their personal data in certain circumstances, except if the 
data is maintained for regulatory reason. 
7.10.1.5 Request that the processing of their personal data is restricted in certain 
circumstances. 
7.10.1.6 Object to processing of their personal data in certain circumstances. 
7.10.1.7 Object to, and not to be subject to a decision based solely on, automated 
processing (including profiling), which produces legal effects or significantly 
effects on the data subject. 
7.10.1.8 Withdraw consent. 
7.10.2 DPPO under the supervision of the DPO shall review and ensure all requests raised by 
data subjects are addressed on a timely manner and in compliance with the applicable 
laws & regulations. 
7.10.3 DPO shall advocate the feasibility of fulfilling such requests and provide a 
reasonable justification in writing (physically or electronically) in case of denial of 
such requests. 
7.10.4 DPPO shall maintain records of such requests irrespective of their fulfilling status. 
7.10.5 As a Joint Controller, BU/FU Heads of solutions shall inform its business partners 
regarding such requests if it pertain to personal data and processing activities that are 
cover under such arrangements. 
7.10.6 Data Subject Request procedures shall be maintained around handling data subject 
request. 
7.11 Data Processor Obligations 
 
7.11.1 Data Privacy Officer shall identify the data processing activities for which solutions 
is a processor. 
7.11.2 Data Privacy Officer shall identify the responsibilities as a data processor and shall 
develop requirements and guidelines on data processor obligations. 
7.11.3 DPO shall ensure that the organization is adhering to its obligations towards the Data 
Controller by lawfully processing the personal data. 
7.11.4 DPPO shall support the Technology BUs in reviewing Data Processing Agreements 
(DPA) shared by customers and addressing privacy queries raised by customers. 
7.11.5 Legal Affairs shall review data privacy obligations before finalizing the contract. 
7.11.6 DPPO shall work with CS&P SPOCs to review potential privacy incidents/ breaches 
that may impact customer data. 
7.11.7 Legal Affairs shall support DPPO and Technology BUs to report potential privacy 
incidents/ breaches to customers. 
7.11.8 CS&P SPoCs shall develop and implement procedure and processes to support Data 
Controllers (customers) and fulfil Data Processor obligations 
 
 
 
 
Doc. Code: PL.06.04 Dated: 03-04-2023 Version: 2.2 
Classification Public STC solutions  © 2023 Page: 17 of 21  
 
This message/document has been classified as “Public”          
 
7.12 Data Privacy and Breach Management 
7.12.1 Data Privacy Officer shall formulate and implement a data privacy incident and breach 
management process to ensure that exceptions in data privacy compliance are 
promptly identified and reported to the DPPO. An incident response team will be 
formulated upon each incident depending on the incident type. 
7.12.2 All the employees shall be aware of the mechanism of raising data privacy incidents. 
7.12.3 The DPPO shall work closely with the DTR section to investigate potential data privacy 
breach incidents resulted from Cybersecurity incidents and track it to closure. 
7.12.4 The DPPO shall maintain an inventory of privacy incidents and shall record the 
lessons learnt. 
7.12.5 As a Joint Controller, BU/FU Heads of solutions shall promptly notify its business 
partners of any data privacy incidents. 
7.12.6 Documented procedures shall be maintained to identify, track, review and notify data 
breaches to relevant regulatory authorities and data subjects. 
7.12.7 In case of a Cybersecurity incident which resulted in a privacy incident Cybersecurity 
Incident Management Framework and Data Privacy Breach Management Procedure 
should be triggered. 
 
8. Custodian 
The custodian for this policy is the Data Protection and Privacy Office (DPPO). DPPO will extend 
support to Data Privacy Officer with matters related to privacy of personal data. The Data Privacy 
Officer shall be  responsible for the maintenance and accuracy of this policy. Any questions 
regarding this document shall be directed to DPPO. 
 
9. Conflict Resolution 
The CS&P Steering Committee be responsible for resolving conflict or disagreements related to the 
implementation of this policy including any conflict-of-interest issues that may arise. 
 
Data Privacy Policy is mandatory and shall be followed in all circumstances unless a specific waivers 
or exceptions have been obtained. Request for waivers form must be filled to include justification and 
benefits attributed to the waiver and shall be submitted to CS&P Steering Committee for review and 
approval. A periodic summary report of all the waivers shall be prepared and maintained by the Data 
Privacy Officer. All waivers shall not exceed one year or a new waiver process shall be initiated. 
 
10. Review and Update 
The Data Privacy Officer shall update/review this policy annually, if deemed necessary, and/or if a 
major change occurred. This policy shall be updated in respect of changes within the privacy field, 
regulatory changed, change in the market the company operates, and internal changes within the 
company. Any change in this Policy is subject to approval by the highest approval level. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Doc. Code: PL.06.04 Dated: 03-04-2023 Version: 2.2 
Classification Public STC solutions  © 2023 Page: 18 of 21  
 
This message/document has been classified as “Public”          
 
11. Definitions 
 
Terminology Explanation 
 
Consent 
Freely given, specific, informed, and explicit consent by statement or action 
signifying agreement to the processing of their personal data. 
Data Controller 
The entity that determines the purposes, conditions, and means of the 
processing of personal data. 
 
Data Subject 
A natural living person whose personal data is processed by a controller or 
processor. 
 
Data Subject Rights 
Rights through which data subjects can make a specific request to 
Controller regarding processing of their Personal Data. 
 
Data Processor The entity that processes data on behalf of the Data Controller. 
Data Privacy Officer 
(DPO) 
Data Privacy Officer/ Section Manager is an independent data privacy 
expert who is responsible for monitoring and enforcement of organization’s 
data privacy program. 
 
Departments 
A sub-unit within a Business Unit in solutions is referred as a Department 
(For e.g., Digital Products is a department under the BU- Digital solutions). 
 
Joint Controller 
Where two or more controllers jointly determine the purposes and means of 
processing, they shall be joint controllers. 
 
Processing 
Any operation performed on personal data, whether or not by automated 
means, including access, collection, use, recording, disposition, etc. 
 
 
 
 
Personal Data (PII) 
Any information regardless of its source or form, which would lead to 
identifying the individual, or that would render the individual identifiable 
directly or indirectly, including, names, ID numbers, addresses, contact 
numbers, licenses and registration numbers, and personal properties, bank 
account numbers and credit cards numbers, individual’s photos or videos, as 
well as any other data of personal nature. 
 
 
 
 
 
Sensitive Personal Data 
Sensitive Personal Data is defined as information that if lost, compromised, or 
disclosed could potentially harm, cause inconvenience, embarrassment, or 
unfairness to an individual  and has high potential  of risk to the rights and 
freedoms of an individual for example revealing racial or ethnic origin, 
political opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs. 
Further it is categorized as: 
 
Hereditary Genetic Data: Hereditary genetic data, biometric data 
processed solely to identify a human being. 
 
Doc. Code: PL.06.04 Dated: 03-04-2023 Version: 2.2 
Classification Public STC solutions  © 2023 Page: 19 of 21  
 
This message/document has been classified as “Public”          
 
 
 Medical Data: Medical data is health-related data. 
Medical Services: Medical Services are data types where it may show 
medicines being used along with other health services which are being 
provided to the subject. 
 
 
Third Party 
Third party, in relation to personal data, means any external organization or 
external person authorized to process data on behalf of or jointly with the 
data controller. 
Business/Functional 
Units 
Any Business/Functional Units within solutions that own a personal data 
processing activity. 
 
 
CS&P SPoC 
Is the representative of the system / application. The CS&P SPoC will be the 
one who drives the day-day data related activities from a Data Management 
perspective. 
 
CS&P Working 
Committee 
The CS&P Working Committee refers to any regular meetings DPPO have 
with stakeholders to monitor or ensure implementation and/or 
effectiveness of DP requirements at operational levels. 
Cybersecurity (CS) Preservation of confidentiality, integrity and availability of information. 
 
 
 
 
 
Direct Report 
Management (DRM) 
The DRM refers to periodic executive meetings to discuss company related 
matters. The DRM meetings include solutions’ executive management; the 
CEO, Chief Officers and/or their representatives/delegates. These DRM 
meetings are also utilized as CS&P Steering Committee meetings as and 
when DPPO have DP matters to brief, or require support and/or directions 
from the executive management (CS&P Steering Committee). 
Corporate performance management is the responsible team at solutions to 
monitor DRM meetings, record and communicate the minutes of meetings 
with relevant stakeholders. 
In addition, Chief Governance Officer is a permanent member in all DRM 
meetings. Given his mandate towards DP, DPPO ensures continuous 
presence to discuss and provide feedback on all DP matters. 
Employee The personnel who is employed on a full-time basis and is in the payroll of 
solutions. 
Executive Management This refers to CEO, Chief Officers of solutions. 
CS&P Director The  highest formal full-time dedicated role responsible  to execute  DP 
programs and initiatives at solutions 
 
 
Data Collection 
The Data Controller obtains personal data in accordance with the provisions 
of the system, whether from its owner directly, or from his representative, or 
from someone  who has legal guardianship over him, or from another party. 
 
Data Disposal 
Any action which leads to the removal of personal data and makes it 
impossible to view or restore it again. 
 
Data Disclosure 
Enabling any person - except the data controller - to obtain, use or access 
personal data by any means and for any purpose. 
Data Transfer Transferring personal data from one place to another for processing. 
 
 
Doc. Code: PL.06.04 Dated: 03-04-2023 Version: 2.2 
Classification Public STC solutions  © 2023 Page: 20 of 21  
 
This message/document has been classified as “Public”          
 
 
 
shall 
The verbal form ‘shall’ used in the content of this document indicates a 
requirement. 
 
 
should 
The verbal form ‘should’ used in the content of this document indicates a 
requirement or recommendation depending on its context, proportional 
risk(s) and the business value through achieving its compliance. 
 
 
12. Reference Documents 
Internal reference 
 Data Privacy Strategy.
 Data Privacy Operating Model.
 Data Privacy Risk Management Framework.
 solution’s Enterprise Data Governance policy.
 CS Corporate Information Security Policy. 
External reference
 Personal Data Protection Law, National Data Management Office (NDMO).
 Communications and Information Technology Commission (CITC) Customer Data 
Privacy Standard.
 STC Data Privacy Policy.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Doc. Code: PL.06.04 Dated: 03-04-2023 Version: 2.2 
Classification Public STC solutions  © 2023 Page: 21 of 21 
 