Whistleblowing 
Meaning of Whistle Blowing:  
Whistle blowing is the act of drawing public attention, or the attention of an 
authority figure, to perceived wrongdoing, misconduct, unethical activity within 
public, private or third-sector organisations. Corruption, fraud, bullying, health and 
safety violation, cover-ups and discrimination are common activities highlighted by 
whistle blowers. 
Whistle blowers often face reprisals from their employer, who may suffer 
reputational damage as a result of the whistle being blown, or from colleagues who 
may have been involved in the illicit activities. In some cases, reprisals become so 
severe that they turn into persecution. In some cases, reprisals come from legal 
channels, particularly if the whistle has been blown for illegitimate reasons. 
Protection of whistle blowers is an important focus for the legal system, as is 
incentivising whistle blowing when there are many reasons stopping employees 
from doing so. All employers should adopt a whistleblowing policy that encourages 
employees to draw attention to wrongdoing or risky behaviour. In the case of legal 
action being taken against a company as a result of internal wrongdoing, having and 
promoting a strong whistleblowing policy may act in part as a legal defence. 
Whistle blower 
A whistle blower is anyone who has and reports insider knowledge of illegal 
activities occurring in an organization. Whistle blowers can be employees, suppliers, 
contractors, clients, or any individual who becomes aware of illegal business 
activities. Whistle blower, an individual who, without authorization, reveals private 
or classified information about an organization, usually related to wrongdoing or 
misconduct. Whistle blowers generally state that such actions are motivated by a 
commitment to the public interest. Although the term was first used to refer to public 
servants who made known governmental mismanagement, waste, or corruption, it 
now covers the activity of any employee or officer of a public or private organization 
who alerts a wider group to setbacks to their interests as a result of waste, corruption, 
fraud, or profit seeking. 
Definition of 'Whistle blower' 
Definition: A whistle blower is a person, who could be an employee of a 
company, or a government agency, disclosing information to the public or some 
higher authority about any wrongdoing, which could be in the form of fraud, 
corruption, etc. Eaton and Akers (2007) say whistle blowing in its simplest form involves the 
act of reporting wrongdoing within an organization to internal and/ or external 
parties.  
According to Daft (2006) “Whistle blowing  is  the  employee’s  disclosure  of  
illegal,  immoral, or illegitimate practices on the employer’s part”.  
According   to   Hellriegel,   Jackson,   Staude   and   Associates   
(2001) “whistle blower’s  as  employers  to  other  people  or  organizations  that  
are  capable  of  their  employers  to  other  people  or  organizations  that  are  capable  
of  taking  corrective  action”.  
Camerer  (2001) defines  whistle  blowing  in  its  most  general  form  as  
involving  calling public attention to wrongful acts, typically in order to avert harm.  
Similarly, Judy  Nadler  and  MiriamSchulman12  defines,  “whistle  blowing  means  
calling attention to wrongdoing that is occurring within an organization”. 
 
Description: A whistle blower is a person who comes forward and shares his/her 
knowledge on any wrongdoing which he/she thinks is happening in the whole 
organisation or in a specific department. A whistle blower could be an employee, 
contractor, or a supplier who becomes aware of any illegal activities. 
 
To protect whistle blowers from losing their job or getting mistreated there are 
specific laws. Most companies have a separate policy which clearly states how to 
report such an incident. A whistle blower can file a lawsuit or register a complaint 
with higher authorities which will trigger a criminal investigation against the 
company or any individual department.  
There are two types of whistle blowers: internal and external. Internal whistle 
blowers are those who report the misconduct, fraud, or indiscipline to senior officers 
of the organisation such as Head Human Resource or CEO. 
External whistleblowing is a term used when whistle blowers report the 
wrongdoings to people outside the organisation such as the media, higher 
government officials, or police. 
CHARACTERISTICS/ FEATURES OF WHISTLE BLOWING  
a) Whistle-blowing is not the same as complaint:   
Complaining  is  not  same  as  blowing  the  whistle.   In   most   instance   complaints   
involve   personal   subject   matter   of   the   complainant than  with  others  or  
public  interest.  Whereas the  whistle  blowing  is  concerned  with  subject  matter  
affecting  public  interest.  Complaints from  service  users,  relatives  or  
representatives  would  not  be  classed  as  whistle  blowing.  These  would  need  to  be  raised  using  the  service’s  complaints  procedure.  Employees those  who 
have complaints regarding pay, hours and general grievances would need to raise 
their complaints using their organizations grievance procedure. 
b) It is not a witness of a crime:  
Witness of crime is not considered as whistle blowing. The general criminal and 
civil proceedings  and  lawsuits  include  witness  of  a  crime  for  investigation  
purpose.  But,  whistle  blower  is  not  mere  witness,  but  much  more  than  witneser.  
Whistle  blower  may be witness or may not be witness of crime, but having enough 
information about that crime. 
c) It is non-public information:  
Information about a company that is not known by the public is known as non-public 
information.  Therefore  the  matter  involved  in  whistle  blowing  is  considered  
as  non-public information.  
d) Substantial importance:  
matter  of  whistle  blowing  must  have  substantial  importance.  The  substantial  
importance is concerned with having or involved worth material facts and figures, 
the costs of damage/ loss to the public. There cannot be simple matter involved in 
whistle blowing which causes no harm to public and less or no loss to anyone.  
e) Desired changes:  
The whistle blower is expecting to stop some activity which causes harm and loss to 
public and society. Therefore there are some desired changes involved by doing so.  
f) Voluntary way:  
Whistle  blowing  is  purely  a  voluntary  act  of  a  person  and  also  a  group.  There  
is  no  external force to make an act of whistle blowing, rather its internal force to 
do so.   
g) Moral protest: Moral: 
  issues  are  concerned  with  the  principles  or  rules  of  right  conduct  or  the  
distinction between right and wrong; ethical. The moral protest is fighting against 
the immoral/ unethical issues. Therefore whistle blowing is considered as moral 
protest.  
 
 h) Public interest disclosure:  A public  interest  disclosure20  is  made  when  a  person  discloses  to  proper  authority  information that tends to show past, present or proposed future improper conduct by a public  body  in  the  exercise  of  its  functions.  
 
WHISTLE BLOWING-KEY ISSUES  
The following are some of the key issues relating to whistle blowing discussed:  
a) Disclosure of wrong doing:  
Whistle blowing is an act by employee. The act is disclosing of wrong doing. 
Information   is   about   possible   or   actual,   important   wrongdoing   in   an   
organization  that  threatens  the  public’s  well-being.  Important  wrongdoing  is  
different  from  a  trivial  one  by  the  1)  number  of  people  affected;  2)  the  
seriousness  of  the  consequences  for  them;  or  3)  the  amount  of  money  involved. 
b) Type of wrong doing:  
Most  of  wrong  doing  incidents  are  theft,  fraud  and  corruption,  harassment,  
discrimination,   environmental   hazards,   breaches   of   policy,   misconduct,   
workplace safety, bullying other unethical behaviour.    
c) Whistle blower:  
Whistle  blowers  are  defined  as  persons  who  sound  an  alarm  from  within  the  
very  organization  in  which  they  work  aiming  to  spotlight,  neglect  or  abuses  
that  threaten  the  public  interest.  Former  employees,  home  workers,  seconded  
individuals,   independent   contractors   and   individuals   responsible   for   the   
management  of  an  organisation  (for  example  directors)  can  blow  the  whistle.  
The  individual  who  exposes  a  wrongdoing  is  not  a  journalist  or  ordinary  
citizen; he or she must be a member or former member of an organization.  
d) Whistle blowing hotlines:    
Whistle  blowing  takes  place  using  various  hotlines  such  as  telephone,  post,  
email, web services, fax, SMS. 
e) Whistle blowing procedure/process:  
The  process  of  whistle  blowing  differs  depending  on  the  nature  of  wrong  
doing and type of organization. There is a systematic way of reporting wrong doing  
and  investigation  to  be  taken.  There  should  be  proper  channel  for  effective  
whistle  blowing  which  forms  the  best  whistle  blowing  procedure.  Sometimes 
the employee may be in confusion with respect to whom to report wrong  doing,  
will  it  be  considered  seriously  by  them  and  affects  serious  investigation  and  
action.  There  may  be  formal  whistle  blowing  procedure  provided by the 
organization. But not all organizations provides for it.  
 f) Types of whistle blowing:  
Internal whistle blowing:  
Most whistle blowers are internal whistle blowers, who report misconduct on 
a fellow employee or superior within their company. One of the most interesting 
questions  with  respect  to  internal  whistle  blowers  is  why  and  under  what  
circumstances  people  will  either  act  on  the  spot  to  stop  illegal  and  otherwise  
unacceptable behaviour or report it. There is some reason to believe that people are 
more likely to take action with respect to unacceptable behaviour, within an 
organization, if there are complaint systems that offer not just options dictated by 
the planning and control organization, but a choice of options for absolute 
confidentiality.   
External whistle blowing:  
External  whistle  blowers,  however,  report  misconduct  on  outside  persons  
or  entities.  In  these  cases,  depending  on  the  information's  severity  and  nature,  
whistle  blowers  may  report  the  misconduct  to  lawyers,  the  media,  law  
enforcement or watchdog agencies, or other local, state, or federal agencies. In some  
cases,  external  whistle  blowing  is  encouraged  by  offering  monetary  reward. 
g) Confidentiality: 
 The  confidentiality  of  whistle  blower  is  very  essential  in  an  effective  whistle  
blowing  procedure.  Generally  the  person  receiving  the  disclosure  would  be  
expected  to  use  their  best  endeavours  to  keep  the  whistle  blower’s  identity  
secret. 
h) Protection:     
The  procedure  should  record  the  protection  that  will  be  given  to  employees  
who make a disclosure. Examples include protection against: 
• Retaliatory action by the employer;  
• Discrimination/victimization under the Human Rights Act 1993; and  
• Criminal  or  civil  liability  arising  from  the  disclosure  (unless  the  
whistle blower was personally involved in the serious wrongdoing). 
i) Demographic Influences:  
Several  demographic  factors  might  be  expected  to  be  associated  with  the  
likelihood  of  blowing  the  whistle.  The  demographic  factors  such  as  age,  gender, income level, religion, education level etc., may have association with 
whistle blowing.  
j) Whistle blowing policy:  
The organizations having whistle blowing policy work and perform far better than  
those  who  don’t  have.  The  purpose  of  this  policy  is  to  provide  a  framework  
to  promote  responsible  and  secure  whistle  blowing.  It  protects  employees  
wishing  to  raise  a  concern  about  serious  irregularities  within  the  company.  
k) Whistle blowing rewards:  
Whistle  blowing  rewards  are  considered  as  anti-corruption  act  by  many  
countries  and  thus  encourage  whistle  blowing  activity  among  employees  by  
rewarding  them.  They  feel  whistle  blowing  can  decrease  the  cost  of  wrong  
doing and thereby increase the stability of organization by cost savings. There are 
exceptions, however. A public official who reports an act of corruption in connection 
with his duties may not eligible for the reward. 
l) An Ethical Dilemma:  
In  practical  terms,  if  someone  is  concerned  about  corruption  or  serious  
wrongdoing in or by an organization, they have three options. These are: 
• To stay silent.  
• To blow the whistle internally or with the responsible person. 
• To blow the whistle internally or with the responsible person.  
ASPECTS   OF   WHISTLE   BLOWING   -   POSITIVE   AND   
NEGATIVE Positive Aspects:  
The  whistle  blowing  act  has  some  positive  aspects.  These  positive  aspects  
reflect  the  benefits,  advantages,  significance,  importance  and  good  side  of  
whistle  blowing. The following factors explain about the positive aspects of whistle 
blowing. 
a) Whistle   blowing   is   an   anti-corruption   tool:   It   minimizes   fraud   
and   misconduct can be corrected.  
b) It ensures effective system of internal control:  
Whistle  blowing  can  play  an  essential  role  as  a  preventive  and  detective  
control,  if  the  organization  explicitly  incorporates  reporting  mechanisms  
that  disclose  incidents  of  wrongdoing  into  its  internal  control  structure.  
 c) It is a good corporate governance practice:  
The    organization    promotes    transparent    structure    and    effective,    
clear    communication among all levels of employees. This can protect 
organizational clients.   Organizations   contain   many   stakeholders   such   
as   share   holders,   directors, managers, employees, vendors; consumers. 
Each of these groups has a  vested  interest  in  the  health  and  long  term  
success  of  the  corporation.  Each  group seeks to secure its own success 
through the activity of the corporation. Each group seeks to do this in a fair 
and equitable way. The only stakeholders that really know what is happening 
within a corporation are the employees. So it   is   in   the   hands   of   the   
employees   to   protect   the   interest   of   various   stakeholders. Whistle  
blowing  gives  all  stakeholders,  but  most  importantly  employees,  the  
opportunity  to  keep  the  corporation  ethical  and  also  to  keep  fellow  
employees  honest.  The  end  of  the  evil  practices  in  the  organization  is  
possible  by  the  effective  whistle  blowing.  If  no  one  questions  the  bad  
behaviour,  it  will  continue  and  as  a  result  cause  even  more  damage  to  
the  organization itself and public. 
d) It is a risk management strategy: 
It’s better to hear the wrongful act at its initial stage, so the solution could be 
found  at  the  earliest  in  preventing  further  damage  to  the  organization  
in  long  run.  
e) It  may  result  in  change  in  public  policy   
Negative Aspects:  
The  act  of  whistle  blowing  even  has  some  negative  aspects.  These  
negative  aspects reflect drawbacks, disadvantages, harms and bad/ugly side of 
whistle blowing. The following factors explain about the negative aspects of 
whistle blowing.  
a) Employees take advantage of whistle blowing for personal benefit:  
  employee  with  greed  can  misuse  the  whistle  blowing  mechanism  for  
personal  benefit.  The  benefit  may  include  personal  grudge,  power,  position,  
and money . 
b) Lack of support for whistle blowing:  
If  the  entire  organization  does  not  have  positive  attitude  towards  whistle  
blowing, then employees may fear speaking up. The lack of  organization  support  
for  internal  whistle  blowing  may  result  in  external  whistle blowing, causing 
serious damage to goodwill of the organization.  
 c) Stress, termination and mistrust:   
Whistle  blowing  causes  stress,  termination   and   mistrust   on   part   of   
the   employees.   These   results   are   retaliatory   acts   by   their   employers.   
The   employers  may  retaliate  against  their  employees  for  blowing  the  
whistle causing  them  heightened  stress  and  discomfort  in  job.  In  most  cases  
the  employers  terminate  their  employees  for  the  act  of  whistle  blowing.  It  
develops  mistrust  on  employees  about  their  organization . The added stress 
by whistle blowing act can cause several health problems and fractures  in  
relationship. Ruined  careers,  stress-related  illness, and even broken marriages 
are the impact of whistle blowing. 
d) Disrupt the team spirit:  
Whistle  blowing  makes  people  suspicious  of  one  another,  which  may  
disrupt  the  team  spirit  and  co-operation  within  the  companies.  This  affects  
the  operations  of  company  in  long  run.  Whistle  blowers  suffer  from  
emotional  self-accusation. After knowing both positive and negative aspects of 
whistle blowing, one can say that positive outweighs negatives, if negatives 
treated effectively. Whistle blowing   benefits,   if   there   is   clear   procedures,   
actively   and   effectively   maintained,  reduce  not  only  harassment  and  
reliability  liability  but  also  the  likelihood of punitive damages. 
Legal protection for whistle blowers in India 
The Government of India has been considering adopting a whistle blower protection 
law for several years. In 2003, the Law Commission of India recommended the 
adoption of the Public Interest Disclosure (Protection of Informers) Act, 2002. In 
August 2010, the Public Interest Disclosure and Protection of Persons Making the 
Disclosures Bill, 2010 was introduced into the Lok Sabha, lower house of the 
Parliament of India. The Bill was approved by the cabinet in June, 2011. The Public 
Interest Disclosure and Protection of Persons Making the Disclosures Bill, 2010 was 
renamed as The Whistle Blowers’ Protection Bill, 2011 by the Standing Committee 
on Personnel, Public Grievances, Law and Justice. The Whistle Blowers’ Protection 
Bill, 2011 was passed by the Lok Sabha on 28 December 2011. and by the Rajya 
sabha on 21 February 2014. The Whistle Blowers Protection Act, 2011 has received 
the Presidential assent on May 9, 2014 and the same has been subsequently 
published in the official gazette of the Government of India on May 9, 2014 by the 
Ministry of Law and Justice, Government of India. 
 
 