 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Enterprise Risk Management –   
Integrated Framework  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ø Application Techniques 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
September 2004 
 
  
 
 
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission 
(COSO) 
Oversight  Representative  
COSO Chair John J. Flaherty 
American Accounting Association  Larry E. Rittenberg  
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants  Alan W. Anderson 
Financial Executives International John P. Jessup 
Nicholas S. Cyprus 
Institute of Management Accountants  Frank C. Minter 
Dennis L. Neider 
The Institute of Internal Auditors  William G. Bishop, III  
David A. Richards 
Project Advisory Council to COSO  
Guidance 
Tony Maki, Chair 
Partner 
Moss Adams LLP 
James W. DeLoach 
Managing Director  
Protiviti Inc. 
John P. Jessup 
Vice President and T reasurer  
E. I. duPont de Nemours and  
Company   
Mark S. Beasley 
Professor  
North Carolina State University 
Andrew J. Jackson  
Senior Vice President of 
Enterprise Risk Assurance 
Services 
American Express Company  
Tony M. Knapp 
Senior Vice President and 
Controller 
Motorola, Inc.   
Jerry W. DeFoor 
Vice President and Controller  
Protective Life Corporation  
Steven E. Jameson 
Executive Vice President, Chief 
Internal Audit & Risk Officer  
Community Trust Bancorp,  Inc. 
Douglas F. Prawitt  
Professor  
Brigham Young Univer sity 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP  
Author 
Principal Contributors 
Richard M. Steinberg 
Former Partner and  Corporate 
Governance  
Leader (Presently Steinberg 
Governance Advisors)  
Miles E.A. Everson 
Partner and Financial Services 
Finance, Operations, Risk an d 
Compliance Leader  
New York  
 
 
Frank J. Martens  
Senior Manager, Client Services 
Vancouver, Canada  
Lucy E. Nottingham 
Manager, Internal Firm  
Services 
Boston 
  
 
  
 
  
 
Table of Contents 
 
1 Introduction....................................................................................................................1 
2 Internal Environment .....................................................................................................5 
3 Objective Setting..........................................................................................................13 
4 Event Identification......................................................................................................21 
5 Risk Assessment ..........................................................................................................33 
6 Risk Response..............................................................................................................55 
7 Control Activities.........................................................................................................63 
8 Information and Communication.................................................................................67 
9 Monitoring ...................................................................................................................85 
10 Roles and Responsibilities ...........................................................................................93 
 
Appendix 
 
Acknowledgments.................................................................................................................. 105 
   
 
 
 Introduction  
 
1 
1. INTRODUCTION 
Use of This Document 
This volume of Enterprise Risk Management – Integrated Framework provides practical 
illustrations of techniques used at various levels of an organization in applying enterprise risk 
management principles.  The organization of this volume parallels that of the Framework 
volume.  In order to provide further linkage, passages from the Framework volume are 
included here, in italics.  Those passages also provide a foundation for the illustrated 
techniques.  To gain the desired benefit from this material, users should be familiar with the 
Framework document.   
 
While it is expected that this material will be useful to those seeking to apply enterprise risk 
management techniques, it is not a part of the Framework.  Its presentation here in no way 
suggests that the illustrated techniques need to be used to effect enterprise risk management, 
or that their application must be present in determining whether enterprise risk management is 
effective.  There is no suggestion that these descriptions or exhibits are a preferred method, or 
represent “best practices.”   
 
The techniques illustrated in this volume are neither intended to be, nor are they, complete.  
The exhibits and accompanying discussions relate to only certain elements presented in the 
Framework and depicted in Exhibit 1.1.  Some of the techniques are applicable to smaller, 
non-complex organizations, while others are more relevant to larger, complex entities.  A 
more comprehensive presentation of techniques for applying enterprise risk management that 
reflects entity size, diversity, and industry is beyond the scope of this project.  Over time, we 
believe that additional guidance will evolve as professional organizations, industry groups, 
academics, regulators, and others develop material to assist their constituencies. 
 
It is suggested that readers considering enterprise risk management application techniques 
also refer to the Evaluation Tools volume of Internal Control –  Integrated Framework for 
additional guidance. It presents tools for use in conducting an evaluation of an entity’s 
internal control system, including a set of blank tools, filled-in tools completed for a 
hypothetical company, and a reference manual.   
Key Elements of Enterprise Risk Management 
To provide ready context, Exhibit 1.1 lists key elements of each of the enterprise risk 
management components.      
 
 Introduction  
 
2 
Exhibit 1.1 
Key Elements of Each Component 
 
Event Identification
Events – Influencing Factors – Event Identification  Techniques –
Event Interdependencies – Event Categories – Distinguishing Risks and Opportunities
Risk Assessment
Inherent and Residual Risk – Establishing Likelihood and Impact – Data Sources –
Assessment Techniques – Event Relationships
Risk Response
Evaluating Possible Responses – Selected Responses – Portfolio View 
Control Activities
Integration with Risk Response – Types of Control Activities – Policies and Procedures –
Controls over Information Systems – Entity Specific
Information and Communication
Information – Communication
Monitoring
Ongoing Monitoring Activities – Separate Evaluations – Reporting Deficiencies
Internal Environment
Risk Management Philosophy – Risk Appetite – Board of Directors – Integrity and Ethical Values 
– Commitment to Competence – Organizational Structure – Assignment of Authority and 
Responsibility – Human Resource Standards
Objective Setting
Strategic Objectives – Related Objectives – Selected Objectives – Risk Appetite –
Risk Tolerances
Event Identification
Events – Influencing Factors – Event Identification  Techniques –
Event Interdependencies – Event Categories – Distinguishing Risks and Opportunities
Risk Assessment
Inherent and Residual Risk – Establishing Likelihood and Impact – Data Sources –
Assessment Techniques – Event Relationships
Risk Response
Evaluating Possible Responses – Selected Responses – Portfolio View 
Control Activities
Integration with Risk Response – Types of Control Activities – Policies and Procedures –
Controls over Information Systems – Entity Specific
Information and Communication
Information – Communication
Monitoring
Ongoing Monitoring Activities – Separate Evaluations – Reporting Deficiencies
Internal Environment
Risk Management Philosophy – Risk Appetite – Board of Directors – Integrity and Ethical Values 
– Commitment to Competence – Organizational Structure – Assignment of Authority and 
Responsibility – Human Resource Standards
Objective Setting
Strategic Objectives – Related Objectives – Selected Objectives – Risk Appetite –
Risk Tolerances
Event Identification
Events – Influencing Factors – Event Identification  Techniques –
Event Interdependencies – Event Categories – Distinguishing Risks and Opportunities
Risk Assessment
Inherent and Residual Risk – Establishing Likelihood and Impact – Data Sources –
Assessment Techniques – Event Relationships
Risk Response
Evaluating Possible Responses – Selected Responses – Portfolio View 
Control Activities
Integration with Risk Response – Types of Control Activities – Policies and Procedures –
Controls over Information Systems – Entity Specific
Information and Communication
Information – Communication
Monitoring
Ongoing Monitoring Activities – Separate Evaluations – Reporting Deficiencies
Internal Environment
Risk Management Philosophy – Risk Appetite – Board of Directors – Integrity and Ethical Values 
– Commitment to Competence – Organizational Structure – Assignment of Authority and 
Responsibility – Human Resource Standards
Objective Setting
Strategic Objectives – Related Objectives – Selected Objectives – Risk Appetite –
Risk TolerancesIntroduction  
 
3 
An Implementation Process 
As noted, this volume illustrates a variety of techniques useful in applying specific elements 
of the enterprise risk management framework.  A higher-level, “up front” issue involves what 
approach management takes when first considering how to implement the framework 
throughout the organization.   
 
An entity’s size, complexity, industry, culture, management style, and other attributes will 
affect how the framework’s concepts and principles are most effectively and efficiently 
implemented.  Because of the array of available approaches and choices, even similar 
organizations implement enterprise risk management differently –  whether applying the 
framework’s concepts and principles for the first time or considering whether their existing 
enterprise risk management process, which may have been developed ad hoc over time, is 
truly effective.  Experience shows, however, that certain commonalities exist, and provided 
here is a brief description of common broad-based steps taken by managements that have 
successfully completed enterprise risk management implementation:  
 
•  Core Team Preparedness –  Establishing a core team, with representation from 
business units and key support functions, including strategic planning, is an important 
first step.  This team becomes intimately familiar with the framework’s components, 
concepts, and principles.  This familiarity provides a common understanding and 
language, and a foundational basis needed to design and implement an enterprise risk 
management process that effectively addresses the entity’s unique needs. 
•  Executive Sponsorship –  While the timing and form of executive sponsorship vary by 
organization, it is important that executive sponsorship be initiated early and solidified 
as implementation progresses.  Executive leadership articulates the benefits of 
enterprise risk management, and establishes and communicates the business case for 
the related investment of resources.  CEO support, and usually at least initial direct 
and visible involvement, drives success.   
•  Implementation Plan Development –  An initial plan is created for the next steps, 
setting out key project phases, including defined work streams, milestones, resources, 
and timing.  Responsibilities are identified, and a project management system put in 
place.  The plan serves as a means to consistently communicate and coordinate with 
team leadership, and as a basis for communicating and confirming expectations of 
various units and personnel, and discussing entity-wide changes anticipated from 
adopting enterprise risk management. 
•  Current State Assessment –  This includes an assessment of how enterprise risk 
management components, concepts, and principles currently are being applied across 
the entity.  This usually involves ascertaining whatever risk management philosophy 
has evolved within the organization and determining whether there is uniform 
understanding of the entity’s risk appetite.  The core team also identifies formal and 
informal policies, processes, practices, and techniques currently in place, as well as Introduction  
 
4 
existing capabilities in the organization for applying the framework’s principles and 
concepts.  
•  Enterprise Risk Management Vision –  The core team develops a vision that sets out 
how enterprise risk management will be used going forward and how it will be 
integrated within the organization to achieve its objectives –  including how the 
organization focuses its enterprise risk management efforts on aligning risk appetite 
and strategy, enhancing risk response decisions, identifying and managing cross-
enterprise risks, seizing opportunities, and improving deployment of capital.  
•  Capability Development –  The current state assessment and the enterprise risk 
management vision provide insights needed to determine the people, technology, and 
process capabilities already in place and functioning, as well as new capabilities that 
need to be developed.  This includes defining roles and responsibilities, and 
modifications to the organizational model, policies, processes, methodologies, tools, 
techniques, information flows, and technologies.   
•  Implementation Plan –  The initial plan is updated and enhanced, adding depth and 
breadth to cover further assessment, design, and deployment.  Additional 
responsibilities are defined, and the project management system refined as needed.  
The plan typically embraces general project management disciplines that are a part of 
any implementation process.   
•  Change Management Development and Deployment –  Actions are developed as 
needed to implement and sustain the enterprise risk management vision and desired 
capabilities –  including deployment plans, training sessions, reward reinforcement 
mechanisms, and monitoring the remainder of the implementation process. 
•  Monitoring –  Management will continually review and strengthen risk management 
capabilities as part of its ongoing management process.  
 
The following chapters illustrate some of the specific techniques for applying the concepts 
and principles in each of the components of the enterprise risk management framework.  Internal Environment 
5 
2. INTERNAL ENVIRONMENT 
Framework Chapter Summary:  The internal environment encompasses the tone of an 
organization, influencing the risk consciousness of its people, and is the basis for all other 
components of enterprise risk management, providing discipline and structure.  Internal 
environment factors include an entity’s risk management philosophy; its risk appetite; 
oversight by the board of directors; the integrity, ethical values, and competence of the 
entity’s people; and the way management assigns authority and responsibility, and organizes 
and develops its people. 
 
This application techniques chapter briefly describes the impact internal environment 
elements can have on an entity’s success or failure, and illustrates statements of risk 
management philosophy, techniques to evaluate the extent to which the philosophy is 
integrated into an entity’s culture, and tools to promote a culture of integrity and ethics.  
Impact  
An organization’s internal environment has a significant impact on how enterprise risk 
management is implemented and functions on an ongoing basis. The internal environment is 
the context in which other components of enterprise risk management are applied, typically 
with powerful effect, either positive or negative.  An example of the latter is presented in 
Exhibit 2.1.  
 
Exhibit 2.1 
Impact of the Internal Environment 
 
The impact of the internal environment is illustrated in findings from the Columbia Accident 
Investigation Board Report. This board, activated by the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration (NASA), investigated the causes of the Columbia Space Shuttle disaster, where the 
space shuttle broke up on re-entry. The report states:  “The organizational causes of the Columbia 
accident were rooted in the Space Shuttle Program’s history and culture. . . .  Cultural traits and 
organizational practices detrimental to safety were allowed to develop, including: reliance on past 
success as a substitute for sound engineering practices (such as testing to understand why systems 
were not performing in accordance with requirements); organizational barriers that prevented effective 
communication of critical safety information and stifled professional differences of opinion; lack of 
integrated management across program elements; and the evolution of an informal chain of command 
and decision-making processes that operated outside the organization’s rules.” 
Risk Management Philosophy  
An entity’s risk management philosophy is the set of shared beliefs and attitudes 
characterizing how the entity considers risk in everything it does, from strategy development 
and implementation to its day-to-day activities. . . . [It] is reflected in virtually everything 
management does in running the entity.  It is captured in policy statements, oral and written 
communications, and decision making.  Whether management emphasizes written policies, 
standards of behavior, performance indicators, and exception reports, or operates more Internal Environment 
 
6 
informally largely through face-to-face contact with key managers, of critical importance is 
that management reinforces the philosophy not only with words but also with everyday 
actions.  
Managements of some companies articulate elements of their risk management philosophy in 
writing.  Examples of risk management philosophies are presented in Exhibits 2.2 and 2.3. 
 
Exhibit 2.2 
Illustrative Statement Describing Risk Management Philosophy 
 
Amidst global growth and cultural expansion, our organization requires a comprehensive approach to 
corporate risk management that promotes broad strategic thinking and analysis, while fundamentally 
integrating the Organization’s Core Values and Beliefs.  To this end, we strive for risk management to 
become our competitive advantage. 
 
The starting point for our risk management program is an enterprise risk strategy that respects the 
needs and aspirations of all with whom we have relationships.  By facilitating the flow of information 
and stressing communication across the organization, the risk management program provides a 
continuous loop risk information model.  This model provides information regarding stakeholder 
needs and expectations to continuously improve our enterprise-wide risk strategy. 
 
To ensure that we fulfill our strategy, our risk management program arms our people with the tools 
and capabilities to overcome the barriers that arise in striving to exceed expectations.  By realizing that 
risk and control is everyone’s job, our people will proactively identify risk in delivering products and 
services to the market in a more efficient and cost effective manner.  Our risk management program 
allows our people to view the problem from various angles to identify not only the risk mitigation 
activities, but also to anticipate and act on potential opportunities— therefore challenging conventional 
wisdom to create better solutions. 
 
A fundamental tenet of our organization is respect and integrity for our employees, customers and 
shareholders.  By incorporating risk management into our daily business practices and by 
operationalizing the related performance measures, the risk management program ensures that we 
maintain our highest ethical standards by living our core values. 
 
Exhibit 2.3 
Illustrative Statement Describing Risk Management Philosophy 
 
Enterprise risk management will provide our organizations with the superior capabilities to identify, 
assess and manage the full spectrum of risks and to enable staff at all levels to better understand and 
manage risk. This will provide us with:  
 
•  Responsible acceptance of risk  
•  Support for Executive and the Board 
•  Improved outcomes 
•  Strengthened accountability 
•  Enhanced stewardship Internal Environment 
7 
All staff are expected to demonstrate appropriate standards of behavior in development of strategy and 
pursuit of objectives.  This philosophy is supported by following guiding principles.  Management and 
staff shall:  
 
•  Consider all forms of risk in decision-making. 
•  Create and evaluate business-unit level and Company-level risk profile to consider what’s best 
for their individual business unit and department and what’s best for the Company as a whole. 
•  Support executive management’s creation of a Company-level portfolio view of risk. 
•  Retain ownership and accountability for risk and risk management at the business unit or other 
point of influence level.  Risk management does not defer accountability to others.  
•  Strive to achieve best practices in enterprise risk management. 
•  Monitor compliance with policies and procedures and the state of enterprise risk management. 
•  Lever existing risk management practices, wherever they exist within the Company.  
•  Document and report all significant risks and enterprise risk management deficiencies. 
•  Accept that enterprise risk management is mandatory, not optional.  
 
To gain insight into how well the risk management philosophy is integrated into an entity’s 
culture, some companies conduct a risk-related culture survey, which measures the presence 
and strength of key risk-related attributes.  Some of the attributes typically addressed in these 
surveys are presented in Exhibit 2.4. 
 
Exhibit 2.4 
Attributes Measured in a Risk-Related Culture Survey  
 
1. Leadership and Strategy  
  
•  Demonstrate Ethics and Values 
 •  Communicate Mission and Objectives 
 
2. People and Communication 
  
•  Commitment to Competency 
 •  Share Information and Knowledge 
 
3. Accountability and Reinforcement 
 
 •  Organizational Structure 
 •  Measure and Reward Performance 
 
4. Risk Management and Infrastructure 
 
 •  Assess and Measure Risk 
 •  System Access and Security Internal Environment 
 
8 
Some companies survey all staff periodically, such as annually, and a representative sample of 
staff more frequently, based on desired timing and confidence level.  One company deploys 
these surveys quarterly to allow for greater insight into the ongoing pulse and trends of the 
organization, especially helpful during times of change.  The results of such surveys provide 
directional indicators of areas of strength and weakness in an organization’s culture.  An 
illustration of how results of a risk-related culture survey question are presented and 
interpreted is shown, in part, in Exhibit 2.5.  The results help the entity identify attributes that 
need strengthening to ensure an effective internal environment. 
 
Exhibit 2.5 
Illustrative Risk-Related Culture Survey 
 
 
# Question Attribute  Mean Rating  Std 
Dev Count SD D N A SA 
1 
The leaders of my unit 
set a positive example 
for ethical conduct 
Leadership and 
Strategy 1.42 Strong 0.71 186 1 3 9 77 96 
2 
I understand the entity’s 
overall mission and 
strategy 
Leadership and 
Strategy 1.05 Good 0.69 186 0   7 18 119 42 
3 
Disciplinary action is 
taken against those who 
engage in professional 
misconduct 
Accountability 
and 
Reinforcement 
0.21 Action 
Needed 1.20 175 11 55 18 68 23 
4 
Turnover of personnel 
has not significantly 
affected our ability to 
achieve objectives 
People and 
Communication 0.81 Caution 0.88 145 4 3 39 69 30 
5 
The leaders of my 
business unit are 
receptive to all 
communications about 
risk, including bad news  
Risk 
Management 
and 
Infrastructure 
0.99 Good 0.85 183 2 13 16 106 46 
In the example above, each question is ranked using a scale of -2 to +2 as follows: -2 Strongly Disagree 
(SD); -1 Disagree (D); 0 Neutral (N); +1 Agree (A); +2 Strongly Agree (SA). The assessment, depicted by 
the color coding, is based on the mean ratings.  Additional information is provided by the standard 
deviation, which is a measure of the respondents’ degree of consensus around an issue –  the smaller the 
standard deviation, the greater the respondents’ level of agreement on that issue, and the greater the 
standard deviation, the less agreement. 
Integrity and Ethical Values 
The effectiveness of enterprise risk management cannot rise above the integrity and ethical 
values of the people who create, administer, and monitor entity activities. 
Integrity and commitment to ethical values start with the individual.  Value judgments, 
attitude, and style are based on individual experiences.  Nowhere are integrity and ethical 
values more important than with the CEO and the senior management team, who set the “tone Internal Environment 
9 
at the top” and influence how other entity personnel will conduct themselves.  The “right” 
tone at the top helps: 
•  The organization’s people do the right thing, both legally and morally 
•  Create a compliance-supporting culture, which is committed to enterprise risk 
management 
•  Navigate “gray” areas where no specific compliance rules or guidelines exist 
•  Promote a willingness to seek assistance and report problems before the point of no 
return 
 
Organizations support a culture of integrity and ethical values with communications such as a 
credo or core values statement that sets out the organization’s values and priorities, and a code 
of conduct.  A code of conduct provides a connection between the organization’s mission or 
vision and its operating policies and procedures.  Not typically an exhaustive conduct guide, 
or a legal document outlining in detail key organizational protocols, a code of conduct is a 
proactive statement of an organization’s positions on ethics and compliance issues.  Codes 
also can serve as a “user-friendly” guide to the organization’s policies on employee and 
organizational conduct.   
 
An illustration of topics often addressed in a code of conduct is presented in Exhibit 2.6.  This 
structure is derived from the Open Compliance and Ethics Group’s pending Foundation 
Guidelines for an Integrated Compliance and Ethics Program.   
 
Exhibit 2.6 
Illustrative Code of Conduct Structure 
 
Code Section  Section Outline  
1. Letter from Chief Executive •  Presents top management’s message of the importance of 
integrity and ethics to the organization 
•  Introduces the code of conduct: its purpose and how to use it 
2. Goals and Philosophy •  Considers the entity’s: 
−  Culture  
−  Business and industry 
−  Geographic locations, domestically and internationally 
−  Commitment to ethical leadership 
3. Conflicts of Interest •  Addresses conflicts of interest and forms of self-dealing  
•  Speaks to personnel and other corporate agents and those 
activities, investments, or interests that reflect on the entity’s 
integrity or reputation 
4. Gifts and Gratuities •  Deals with giving of gifts and gratuities, setting forth the 
entity’s policy, typically going well beyond local law 
•  Sets standards and provides guidance regarding gifts and 
entertainment and their proper reporting   
5. Transparency •  Includes provisions dealing with the organization’s 
commitment to complete and understandable social, 
environmental, and economic reporting  Internal Environment 
 
10 
Code Section  Section Outline  
environmental, and economic reporting  
6. Corporate Resources •  Includes provisions dealing with corporate resources, including 
intellectual property and proprietary information –  whom these 
belong to and how they are safeguarded 
7. Social Responsibility •  Includes the entity’s role as a corporate citizen, including its 
commitment to human rights, environmental sustainability, 
community involvement, and environmental and economic 
issues  
8. Additional Conduct-Related 
Topics  
•  Includes provisions regarding adherence to policies established 
within specific areas of company activity, for example:  
−  Employment issues such as fair labor practices and 
antidiscrimination 
−  Governmental dealings such as contracting, lobbying, and 
political activity 
−  Antitrust and other competitive practices 
−  Good faith and fair dealing with customers/competitors/ 
suppliers  
−  Confidentiality and security of information 
−  Environmental practices 
−  Product safety/quality 
 
The overview from a professional service firm’s code of conduct is presented in Exhibit 2.7. 
 
Exhibit 2.7 
Illustrative Overview from Code of Conduct 
 
Our Values 
•  The best solutions come from working together with colleagues and clients. 
•  Effective teamwork requires Relationships, Respect and Sharing. 
•  Delivering what we promise and adding value beyond what is expected. 
•  We achieve excellence through Innovation, Learning, and Agility. 
•  Leading with clients, leading with people and thought leadership. 
•  Leadership demands Courage, Vision and Integrity. 
Upholding the [firm] name 
•  Our clients and colleagues trust [firm name] based on our professional competence and 
integrity –  qualities that underpin our reputation. We uphold that reputation.  
•  We seek to serve only those clients whom we are competent to serve, who value our service 
and who meet appropriate standards of legitimacy and integrity.  
•  When speaking in a forum in which audiences would reasonably expect that we are speaking 
as a representative of [firm name], we generally state only [firm name] view and not our own.  
•  We use all assets belonging to [firm name] and to our clients, including tangible, intellectual 
and electronic assets, in a manner both responsible and appropriate to the business and only 
for legal and authorized purposes. Internal Environment 
11 
Behaving Professionally  
•  We deliver professional services in accordance with [firm name] policies and relevant 
technical and professional standards.  
•  We offer only those services we can deliver and strive to deliver no less than our 
commitments.  
•  We compete vigorously, engaging only in practices that are legal and ethical.  
•  We meet our contractual obligations and report and charge honestly for our services.  
•  We respect the confidentiality and privacy of our clients, our people and others with whom we 
do business. Unless authorized, we do not use confidential information for personal use, [firm 
name’s] benefit or to benefit a third party. We disclose confidential information or personal 
data only when necessary, and when appropriate approval to do so has been obtained, and/or 
we are compelled to do so by legal, regulatory or professional requirements.  
•  We aim to avoid conflicts of interest. Where potential conflicts are identified and we believe 
that the respective parties' interests can be properly safeguarded by the implementation of 
appropriate procedures, we will implement such procedures.  
•  We treasure our independence of mind. We protect our clients' and other stakeholders' trust by 
adhering to our regulatory and professional standards, which are designed to enable us to 
achieve the objectivity necessary in our work. In doing so, we strive to ensure our 
independence is not compromised or perceived to be compromised. We address circumstances 
that impair or could appear to impair our objectivity.  
•  When faced with difficult issues or issues that place [firm name] at risk, we consult 
appropriate [firm name] individuals before taking action. We follow our applicable technical 
and administrative consultation requirements.  
•  It is unacceptable for us to receive or pay bribes. 
Respecting Others  
•  We treat our colleagues, clients and others with whom we do business with respect, dignity, 
fairness and courtesy.  
•  We take pride in the diversity of our workforce and view it as a competitive advantage to be 
nurtured and expanded.  
•  We are committed to maintaining a work environment that is free from discrimination or 
harassment.  
•  We try to balance work and private life and help others to do the same.  
•  We invest in the ongoing enhancement of our skills and abilities.  
•  We provide a safe working environment for our people.  
Corporate Citizenship 
•  We express support for fundamental human rights and avoid participating in business 
activities that abuse human rights.  
•  We act in a socially responsible manner, within the laws, customs and traditions of the 
countries in which we operate, and contribute in a responsible manner to the development of 
communities.  
•  We aspire to act in a manner that minimizes the detrimental environmental impacts of our 
business operations.  
•  We encourage the support of charitable, educational and community service activities.  Internal Environment 
 
12 
•  We are committed to supporting international and local efforts to eliminate corruption and 
financial crime.  
 
To monitor the extent to which employees’ actions conform to established standards, some 
companies periodically use staff focus groups.  This feedback, often employing technology, is 
used to “validate” core values.  Technology also can be used to enable sharing and updating 
information and tracking employee compliance with the code of conduct and related policies, 
standards, and procedures.  Illustrations of how entities are using technology to foster the 
desired culture are presented in Exhibit 2.8. 
 
Exhibit 2.8 
Technology to Support a Culture of Integrity and Ethics 
 
•  A direct link from the organization’s Internet (or intranet) home page to the values statement 
and code of conduct, facilitating their use and sending a message about their importance 
•  Electronically available codes and related information, providing ease of access and 
eliminating need for paper copies 
•  Confirmation that staff received the information  
•  Training venues and e-learning  
•  Automatic reference to the code or guidance used during completion of tasks 
•  Automatic reminder to staff of required actions  
•  Notification to staff’s immediate supervisor and above if action is not taken in a timely 
manner 
•  Method to obtain certification of compliance 
•  Audit trail of activities 
 Objective Setting  
13 
3. OBJECTIVE SETTING 
Framework Chapter Summary:  Objectives are set at the strategic level, establishing a basis 
for operations, reporting, and compliance objectives.  Every entity faces a variety of risks 
from external and internal sources, and a precondition to effective event identification, risk 
assessment, and risk response is establishment of objectives.  Objectives are aligned with the 
entity’s risk appetite, which drives risk tolerance levels for the entity. 
 
This chapter illustrates linking an entity’s mission with strategic and related objectives, 
aligning strategic and related objectives, and depictions of risk appetite and risk tolerances.  
Strategic Objectives 
In considering alternative ways to achieve its strategic objectives, management identifies 
risks associated with a range of strategy choices and considers their implications.  Various 
event identification and risk assessment techniques, discussed below and in later chapters, 
can be used in the strategy-setting process. 
Exhibit 3.1 illustrates setting strategic objectives, using risk assessment techniques.   
 
Exhibit 3.1 
Setting Strategic Objectives 
 
A community bank considering its options for enhancing customer services identified three strategies:  
 
•  Option A –  Expand its branch network into new areas matching its target demographics 
•  Option B –  Scale back the branch network to 50% of its current size, and significantly enhance 
its Internet and call-center capabilities 
•  Option C –  Maintain the branch network, and outsource the existing Internet and call-center 
operations to a lower-cost company in a foreign country 
 
When considered against the bank’s vision, which encompasses contributing to the communities 
within which it operates, Option C was seen as inconsistent with the vision, given the job losses that 
would result.  Management then focused on Options A and B.  
 
Using scenario analysis, modeling, and stress testing (discussed in the Risk Assessment chapter), 
management compared the results of each option in relation to the impact on return on capital 
employed.  Management identified the distribution of potential return outcomes given their differing 
credit and operational risk profiles, and determined that the potential returns on capital employed 
under the two scenarios, while having similar median outcomes, have markedly different distributions, 
as shown below. Objective Setting  
 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 A – Expand branch network     
 B – Expand Internet network  
 
Based on this analysis, management adopted Option A, deciding to forego the potential upside but 
avoiding the potential downside of Option B.   
Related Objectives 
Entity-level objectives are linked to and integrated with more specific objectives that cascade 
through the organization to sub-objectives established for various activities, such as sales, 
production, and engineering, and infrastructure functions. 
Linkage of a company’s mission with its strategic objectives, strategies, and related objectives 
is illustrated in Exhibit 3.2. 
 
Exhibit 3.2 
Linking Mission/Vision with Strategic and Related Objectives 
 
Mission   •  To provide high-quality, accessible, and affordable community-based health 
care 
 
Strategic 
Objectives  
•  Be the first or second largest, full-service health care provider in mid-size 
metropolitan markets 
•  Rank in the top quartile in quality for our core medical services 
•  Be recognized in the local marketplaces as quality/price leaders 
 -5% 0% 5% 10% 15% 20% 25% 30% 35% 
Median = 15% 
2.5% .5.0% 7.5% 10.0% 
  
Median = 15% 
Estimated Return 
Probability  Objective Setting  
15 
Strategies  •  Align with stand-alone hospitals in the target markets in which we do not 
currently have a presence 
•  Acquire high-quality, under-performing medical service providers in target 
markets where feasible –  otherwise, consider lesser programs to revamp and 
rebuild 
•  Develop ownership participation or profit-sharing programs to attract top local 
medical talent 
•  Develop tailored, targeted marketing programs for large and middle market 
businesses in target markets 
•  Bring our state-of-the-art infrastructure systems to provide effective 
management and cost control 
•  Achieve leading track record of compliance with all healthcare and other 
applicable laws and regulations 
Related Objectives  
- Operations  
 
•  Initiate dialogue with leadership of ten top under-performing hospitals and 
negotiate agreements with two this year 
•  Target ten other programs in key target markets and execute agreements with 
five this year 
•  Identify needs and motivations of leading practitioners in major markets and 
structure alternative model terms 
•  Ensure at least one top medical talent is on board in each core discipline in at 
least five major markets this year 
•  Hold focus groups with business leaders in key markets to determine program 
needs 
•  Develop alternative model programs for business customers 
•  Develop methodologies for quick-start implementation of information and 
operational systems in acquired/rebuilt hospitals 
•  Set protocols for migration from existing systems 
•  Implement new systems in one new location to serve as model going forward 
- Reporting •  Install our foundation systems in newly acquired facilities to provide 
management reports on key performance measures, with exception and trend 
line analysis, within four working days of month-end 
•  Ensure all facilities report, accurately and on a timely basis, compliance 
performance and issues for management review 
•  Establish uniform reporting system/accounts for assembly of accurate and 
complete information required for external reporting 
- Compliance •  Establish compliance office with charter, leadership, and staffing centrally, 
providing support to local units 
•  Ensure line personnel recognize their primary compliance responsibilities, 
building into human resource objectives and performance assessments 
•  Develop company-wide protocols for medical procedures, drug storage and 
dispensing, staffing assignments and schedules, and all aspects of patient care 
•  Review privacy policies and practices and benchmark against federal 
requirements and best practices 
 Objective Setting  
 
16 
Another example of linkage is illustrated in Exhibit 3.3.  Here, the bank referred to in Exhibit 
3.1 aligned its vision first with strategic objectives and strategies, and then with objectives in 
its property unit and human resources function. 
 
Exhibit 3.3  
Linking Mission/Vision with Strategic and Related Objectives 
 
Vision  Be the leading and most trusted provider of financial services to families within 
the region, thereby contributing to the communities within which we operate 
Strategic 
Objectives  
•  To maintain an annual return on capital employed of 15% 
•  To grow the customer base by 30% within three years through expanding 
the branch network by 50% over that timeframe 
Strategies  •  Acquire new property leases in areas that match our target customer 
demographics  
•  Maintain the current cost structure for the branch network 
Property Unit 
Objectives  
•  Develop an outsourcing relationship with a qualified real estate company to 
identify and negotiate suitable leases in accordance with the required growth 
in the property portfolio 
•  Open 15 new branches in the coming year 
•  Maintain rental cost average of $xx rental per square foot across the property 
portfolio 
•  Recruit two additional in-house property managers 
Human 
Resources 
Objectives  
•  Annual turnover of customer services staff below 10% 
•  Recruit and train 100 customer service staff in the coming year 
•  Develop negotiating position and plan for upcoming negotiations with the 
trade union regarding treatment of the new employees 
Risk Appetite 
Risk appetite can be expressed in qualitative or quantitative terms.  Exhibit 3.4 provides 
illustrative questions management might ask when considering its risk appetite. 
 
Exhibit 3.4 
Considering Risk Appetite 
 
1. What risks is the company in business to accept and what risks will it not accept –  e.g., is the 
organization prepared to accept minor losses of physical inventory from pilferage but not 
willing to accept large losses of physical inventory from spoilage, obsolescence, or natural 
disasters? 
2. Is the company comfortable with the amount of risk accepted, or to be accepted, by each of its 
businesses?  
3. What levels of risk is the company prepared to accept on new initiatives in order to achieve 
the company-wide desired return on invested capital of 15%? 
4. Is the entity prepared to accept more risk than it currently is accepting and, if so, what return 
level would be required?   Objective Setting  
17 
5. What level of capital or earnings is the organization willing to put at risk given a particular 
confidence level –  e.g., will management accept 50% of its capital at risk of loss with 95% 
confidence in this amount? 
6. What percentage of “worst case” risks does the company want to have capital available to 
cover –  based on a scale of likelihood and impact of major risk potentialities?  Is it acceptable 
that an unlikely event could challenge the entity’s viability? 
7. Are there specific risks that the organization is not prepared to accept, such as risks that could 
result in non-compliance with privacy of information laws? 
8. To what extent will the company accept risk to competing objectives, such as risk of lower 
gross profit margin in return for greater market share? 
9. How does the organization’s risk appetite compare with that of peers –  how much risk is the 
organization prepared to accept to move from following competitors in product innovation to 
trend-setter status? 
10. What are the relative risks, and related comfort levels, in preserving value by maintaining the 
quality of existing products and services, versus seeking to create new value through new 
product development?    
11. To what extent is the company prepared to enter into projects with lower likelihood of success 
but larger potential returns?  
12. Is the organization more comfortable with a qualitative descriptor versus a quantitative one?  
 
Some organizations express risk appetite in terms of a “risk map,” as illustrated in Exhibit 3.5.  
In this exhibit, any significant residual risk in the yellow area exceeds the company’s risk 
appetite, calling for management to take action to reduce the likelihood and/or impact of the 
risk to bring it within the company’s risk appetite.  
 
Exhibit 3.5 
Forming Risk Appetite 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Within Risk 
Appetite
Exceeding 
Risk Appetite
Likelihood
Impact
Low Medium High
Low Medium High
Within Risk 
Appetite
Exceeding 
Risk Appetite
Likelihood
Impact
Low Medium High
Low Medium HighObjective Setting  
 
18 
Some industries, especially those in financial services and the oil and gas sector, are able to 
adopt sophisticated approaches using quantitative techniques to express risk appetite.  
Advanced entities might express risk appetite using market measures or risk-based capital.  
Exhibit 3.6 provides an illustration of a statement of risk appetite in terms of market 
measures.   
 
Exhibit 3.6 
Risk Appetite in Terms of Market Measures 
 
A utility company focuses on growing market value capitalization through generating stable cash 
flows and earnings, and sets risk appetite in those terms.  Therefore, all entity-level risks are expressed 
in relation to the effect on earnings and cash flow volatility.  When the trend line in volatility 
approaches risk appetite, management takes actions as necessary. 
 
Exhibit 3.7 illustrates how a company views capital at risk versus return in relation to risk 
appetite.  The company strives to diversify its portfolio to earn a return that lines up along the 
target profile, rather than lower down, in the interior of the region. 
 
Exhibit 3.7 
Risk Appetite, Return, and Capital at Risk 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Determine Risk Tolerances 
Risk tolerances are the acceptable levels of variation relative to the achievement of 
objectives. . . . Operating within risk tolerances provides management greater assurance that 
the entity remains within its risk appetite, which, in turn, provides a higher degree of comfort 
that the entity will achieve its objectives. 
Return
Capital at Risk
Corporate Financing
Target risk-return profile
Trading
Fibre Optics
Hotel Operations
Minerals
Fertilizers
Venture Capital
Pipelines
Current State
Target State
Return
Capital at Risk
Corporate Financing
Target risk-return profile
TradingTrading
Fibre OpticsFibre Optics
Hotel OperationsHotel Operations
MineralsMinerals
FertilizersFertilizers
Venture CapitalVenture Capital
PipelinesPipelines
Current State
Target StateObjective Setting  
19 
Development of risk tolerances by an airline related to on-time service is illustrated in Exhibit 
3.8.  
 
Exhibit 3.8 
Objectives and Risk Tolerances 
 
An airline decided to set an objective around superior on-time service.  Management recognized the 
factors causing flight delays, some of which are within its control, while others are not, and 
understood well how the various factors affected regulators’ public reporting of on-time service.  In 
considering risk tolerances, marketing, customer service, and operations, personnel determined that:  
 
•  85% on-time flight arrival has remained the company’s target for many years, which generally 
has been achieved and is in line with messages in its marketing program 
•  The industry average for on-time arrival on the relevant routes for the past several years has 
remained at approximately 80% 
•  There is minimal effect on the company’s customer flight bookings when arrival times 
temporarily decrease to as low as the industry average 
•  The cost to achieve more than 87% on-time arrival is uneconomical and cannot be passed 
through in ticket prices 
•  The company has been criticized by industry analysts for its inability to keep costs down 
 
Based on this information, management maintained the objective of 85% average on-time arrival, with 
a tolerance of between 82% and 86%.  Looking at the tolerances for other objectives, management is 
better able to allocate resources to ensure reasonable likelihood of achieving outcomes across multiple 
objectives. 
 
Risk tolerances sometimes are set at the entity level and allocated across business units, as 
illustrated in Exhibit 3.9. 
 
Exhibit 3.9 
Risk Tolerances Across Multiple Business Units 
 
A company set a risk tolerance of no more than 20% of revenue to be derived from alliance partners.  
When its two business units developed operating and marketing plans for the coming period, both 
showed a strong dependence on alliance partners, and, when aggregated, the plans reflected such 
sourced revenue exceeding the 20% threshold.  Management decided to allow business unit A to 
generate up to 40% of revenue from its alliance partner, while business unit B was allowed only 15%, 
allowing the company’s overall plan to retain the 20% tolerance level.   
 
The way in which one organization depicted the relationship between its mission, objectives, 
appetite, and tolerance is illustrated, in part, in Exhibit 3.10.  Objective Setting  
 
20 
Exhibit 3.10 
Relating Mission, Objectives, Appetite, and Tolerance 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mission 
To be a leading producer of premium household products in the regions in which we operate
 
Strategic 
Objectives 
•  To be in the top 
quartile of product 
sales for retailers of 
our products  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Measures 
1. Market share  
Risk Appetite 
•  Accept that the 
company will consume 
large amounts of 
capital investing in 
new assets, people and 
process  
•  Accept that  
competition could 
increase (e.g., through 
predatory pricing, etc .) 
as we seek to increase 
market share, thereby 
reducing profit 
margins 
•  We do not accept 
erosion of product 
quality 
 
Related Objectives 
• Increase production of 
Unit X by 15% in the 
next 12 months 
• Hire 180 qualified new 
staff across all 
manufacturing divisions  
• Maintain product quality 
of 4.0 sigma 
• Maintain 22% staff cost 
per dollar order 
Measures 
• Units of production  
• Number of staff hired 
• Product quality by sigma  
Risk Tolerances 
 
Tolerances –  Acceptable Range 
20% –  30% 
-7,500/+10,000  
-15/+ 20  
4.0 –  4.5 sigma 
 
Target 
25th percentile 
150,000 units 
180 staff 
4.0 sigma 
 
Measure 
• Market share  
• Units of production  
• Number of staff hired (net) 
• Product quality index 
 
Strategy 
Expand production of our 
top -five selling retail 
products to meet increased 
demand Event Identification  
21 
4. EVENT IDENTIFICATION 
Framework Chapter Summary:  Management identifies potential events that, if they occur, 
will affect the entity, and determines whether they represent opportunities or whether they 
might adversely affect the entity’s ability to successfully implement strategy and achieve 
objectives.  Events with negative impact represent risks, which require management’s 
assessment and response.  Events with positive impact represent opportunities, which 
management channels back into the strategy and objective-setting processes.  When 
identifying events, management considers a variety of internal and external factors that may 
give rise to risks and opportunities, in the context of the full scope of the organization. 
 
This chapter illustrates some of the techniques used in event identification.  Included are 
illustrations of how events are linked with objectives; techniques enabling personnel to 
identify events using event inventories, facilitated workshops, interviews, questionnaires, 
surveys, and process flow analysis; and identifying events using leading event indicators, 
escalation triggers, and loss event data tracking.  Also illustrated are interrelationships 
between multiple events, and use of event categories to enhance understanding the 
relationships. 
Linking Events with Objectives 
In some circumstances, identifying events related to a specific objective is reasonably 
straightforward, as illustrated in Exhibit 4.1.  In this illustration, building on Exhibit 3.10, 
potential events and their impacts are identified and related to the objective, associated risk 
tolerance, and measurement unit.  In this example, management determined that increasing 
staffing levels and maintaining staff costs were two operations objectives (other operations 
objectives are not presented).  
 Event Identification  
 
22 
Exhibit 4.1 
Identifying Events  
 
Mission To be the leading producer of premium household products in the regions 
in which we operate 
Strategic objective To be in the top quartile of product sales for retailers of our products 
Related objectives • Hire 180 new qualified staff across all manufacturing divisions to 
meet customer demand without overstaffing 
• Maintain 22% staff cost per dollar order 
Objective unit of 
measure 
• Number of new qualified staff hired  
• Staff cost per dollar order  
Tolerance • 165 –  200 new qualified staff 
• Staff cost between 20% and 23% per dollar order 
Potential events/risks 
and related impact 
• Unexpected slowdown in job market causing more offers being 
accepted than planned, resulting in excess staff 
• Unexpected heating up of job market causing fewer offers being 
accepted, resulting in too few staff 
• Inadequate needs/specifications descriptions, resulting in hiring 
unqualified staff 
 
In other circumstances, risk identification is not as immediately evident, and a variety of 
techniques are used, as discussed in the following paragraphs.   
Event Identification Techniques 
An entity’s event identification methodology may comprise a combination of techniques, 
together with supporting tools. . . .  Event identification techniques look to both the past and 
the future. 
Management uses any number of techniques to identify potential events affecting 
achievement of objectives.  The techniques are used in identifying risks and opportunities, for 
example, when implementing a new business process, re-designing an existing one, or 
evaluating a process.  Or, they may be used in connection with strategic or business unit 
planning, or when considering new initiatives or organizational change.  They may be used on 
a periodic or an ongoing basis.   
 
Application of common event identification techniques is illustrated below.  
Event Inventories  
Managements use listings of potential events common to a specific industry or functional 
area.  The list is developed by personnel within the entity, or from generic lists generated 
externally.  Such lists of potential events are used, for example, relative to a specific project, 
process or activity, and can be useful in ensuring a consistent view across similar activities 
within the organization.  If externally developed, the inventory is enhanced and otherwise Event Identification  
23 
tailored to the entity’s circumstances, to better relate to the organization’s risks, and to be 
consistent with the organization’s common enterprise risk management language.  Exhibit 4.2 
illustrates use of an externally produced inventory of events potentially affecting a software 
development project.  
 
Exhibit 4.2 
Event Inventories 
 
Before undertaking a software development project, a company reviews an inventory of generic risks 
inherent in software development projects.  The inventory provides a useful way to draw on the 
accumulated risk knowledge of others experienced in this subject area.  Recognizing that the inventory 
includes risks from companies with different characteristics, management considers the effect of these 
risks on its own unique circumstances. 
Facilitated Workshops  
Event identification facilitated workshops typically bring together cross-functional or multi-
level individuals for the purpose of drawing on the group’s collective knowledge to develop a 
list of events as they relate, for example, to the company’s strategic, business unit, or process 
objectives.  The results of workshops usually depend on the depth and breadth of information 
the participants bring to the table.    
 
Some organizations in connection with strategy setting hold a workshop of senior 
management to identify events that could affect achievement of corporate strategic objectives.  
An approach to the workshop and agenda used by one company to identify potential events 
relevant to the achievement of specified objectives is outlined in Exhibit 4.3.   
 
Exhibit 4.3 
Facilitated Workshop Outline  
 
Prior to the workshop  
•  Identify experienced facilitator to lead the session, manage group dynamics, and plan how best 
to capture generated ideas in usable form 
•  Establish and agree on ground rules at the commencement of the workshop 
•  Recognize the different participant styles and personality types, considering how to optimize 
their contribution 
•  Identify which objectives, category of objectives, and categories of events to focus on 
•  Invite an appropriate number of workshop participants –  normally limit to 15 or fewer  
•  Set realistic expectations up front with respect to what the workshop is intended to achieve 
Agenda 
1. Introduction 
 - Explain background of workshop and why each participant has been invited 
 - Explain ground rules 
2. Explain workshop process  
 - Events are to be considered against corporate objectives per business plan Event Identification  
 
24 
 - For each objective, the facilitator will prompt discussion on events emanating from 
the following factors, and their related effects: 
   External Internal  
   Economic Infrastructure  
   Natural environment  Personnel 
   Political Process 
   Social  Technology 
   Technological  
 - Describe how and when voting tools and verbal inputs will be used 
 - Explain how ideas, conclusions will be documented 
3. Explore Objective 1   
 - Identify the objective, its unit of measure, and the related established targets 
 - Gain consensus of risk tolerance –  the degree of acceptable variation around the unit 
of measure 
 - Discuss internal and external factors that drive potential events relative to the 
objective 
 - Determine which events represent risks to achieving the objective, and which events 
represent opportunities 
 - Consider how multiple risks affecting this objective relate to one another 
4. Next steps and cl ose  
 - Distribute the workshop output to all participants within 48 hours, with action plan for 
next steps 
Interviews 
Interviews typically are conducted in a one-on-one setting, or sometimes two-on-one, where 
the interviewer is accompanied by a colleague taking notes.  The purpose is to ascertain the 
individual’s candid views and knowledge of actual past events and potential events.  An 
interview agenda used in focusing on business unit objectives is illustrated in Exhibit 4.4. 
 
Exhibit 4.4 
Interview Agenda 
 
Interview Agenda  
1. Introduction   
2. Provide background on the project and interview process 
3. Confirm the person’s position, background, and current responsibilities 
4. Confirm they received and read any background material provided in advance 
Strategies and Obje ctives  
1. Identify the key objectives within the interviewee’s business unit/division 
2. Determine how the objectives align with and support the entity’s strategies and objectives 
3. Identify the unit of measure for each objective and the related established targets 
4. Determine the established risk tolerances 
5. Discuss factors related to potential events relative to the objective 
6. Identify potential events creating risks to objectives, and those representing opportunities 
7. Consider how the interviewee prioritizes these events, considering likelihood and impact 
8. Identify events that have occurred in the past 12 months that impacted the entity that were not 
identified by management and staff 
9. Consider whether risk identification mechanisms need to be enhanced Event Identification  
25 
Questionnaires and Surveys 
Questionnaires address a range of issues to be considered by participants, focusing their 
thinking on internal and external factors that have given rise, or may give rise, to events. 
Questions can be open-ended or closed, depending on the goal.  They can be directed to one 
or a few individuals, or used in connection with a broader-based survey, either within an 
entity or directed to customers, suppliers, or other external parties.  Use of these techniques is 
illustrated in Exhibit 4.5. 
 
Exhibit 4.5 
Illustrative Questionnaire and Survey 
 
Targeted Questionnaire  
A company requires business unit staff to complete a questionnaire before accepting a new vendor.  
The questionnaire requires the staff person to consider a range of questions exploring the potential 
vendor’s: 
•  Quality processes 
•  Risk management processes 
•  Insurance coverage 
•  Terms and conditions 
 
In considering the questions, the staff person identified the following potential events to which the 
company would be exposed if it were to do business with the vendor: 
•  The vendor’s history of inconsistent delivery presents a risk of supply chain disruptions. 
•  The vendor is not certified to an appropriate quality standard.  A risk exists that the materials 
provided might not meet the company’s quality specifications, resulting in production 
problems, loss of customers, and reputational damage. 
•  The vendor has inadequate insurance coverage for product defects.  A risk exists that the 
company would not be able to recover associated losses. 
• The vendor’s terms require a two-year commitment from the company, with an associated risk 
of changing needs and related economic loss.   
 
Survey 
A fast-food company regularly surveys its customers in two areas:  changes in their consumption 
habits/preferences, and satisfaction levels with the service received in its restaurants.  A recently 
completed survey identified a shift in preference toward organic foods and away from genetically 
modified foods.  With this information, management assessed the extent to which the shift in 
preferences called for modification of strategy and related objectives, including new product offerings 
and marketing programs.  Similarly, management used the survey results –  which showed a declining 
level of satisfaction with service at particular restaurants –  in looking at underlying issues related to 
those units.   Event Identification  
 
26 
Process Flow Analysis 
Process flow analysis typically involves the diagrammatic representation of a process, with 
the goal of better understanding the interrelationships of its component inputs, tasks, outputs, 
and responsibilities.  Once mapped, events can be identified and considered against process 
objectives.  As with other event identification techniques, process flow analysis can be used in 
looking from a high level within the entity, or at a detailed level.  Exhibit 4.6 illustrates the 
latter, depicting how a company mapped its cash receipts process as a basis for identifying 
related risks to the objective of depositing and recording all cash receipts on a timely and 
accurate basis.   
 
Exhibit 4.6 
Process Flow Analysis 
 
  
 
 
 
Tasks  Possible events  
1. Clerk stamps check with date stamp •  Clerk fails to stamp check 
2. Check entered into check register •  Clerk fails to record check details 
•  Clerk records incorrect check details 
•  Clerk misappropriates check 
3. Check deposited by Clerk •  Check lost en route to bank 
•  Check deposited to incorrect bank account 
•  Incorrect amount recorded by bank 
•  Stamped deposit slip lost 
4. Remittance slips and check register 
sent to AR Clerk 
•  Remittance slips or check register misplaced or lost  
5. AR Clerk posts checks to AR ledger •  Checks applied to incorrect accounts 
•  Incorrect amount recorded against customer account 
•  AR Clerk does not post checks 
6. Posting report matched to deposit 
slip 
•  Details do not match 
Inputs Tasks Outputs
Check received 1. Clerk stamps 
check with date 
stamp
4.  Remittance slips 
and check register 
sent to AR Clerk
6.  Posting report 
matched to deposit 
slip
2. Check entered 
into check 
register
5.  AR Clerk posts 
checks to AR 
ledger
3. Check 
deposited by 
Clerk
A. Stamped 
deposit slip
B. Posting report
C. Posting report filed 
with deposit slip
Inputs Tasks Outputs
Check received 1. Clerk stamps 
check with date 
stamp
4.  Remittance slips 
and check register 
sent to AR Clerk
6.  Posting report 
matched to deposit 
slip
2. Check entered 
into check 
register
5.  AR Clerk posts 
checks to AR 
ledger
3. Check 
deposited by 
Clerk
A. Stamped 
deposit slip
B. Posting report
C. Posting report filed 
with deposit slipEvent Identification  
27 
Leading Event Indicators and Escalation Triggers 
Leading event indicators, often called leading risk indicators, are qualitative or quantitative 
measures that provide insight into potential events –  such as the price of fuel, turnover in 
investor securities accounts, and traffic on an Internet site.  To be useful, leading risk 
indicators must be available to management on a timely basis, which, depending on the 
information, might be daily, weekly, monthly, or in real time.  
 
Escalation triggers typically focus on day-to-day operations and are reported, on an exception 
basis, when a pre-established threshold is passed.  Companies often have escalation triggers 
established within business units or departments.  To be effective, escalation triggers need to 
establish when managers are to be notified, with notification timing based on the manager’s 
view of how much time is needed to take action.   
 
Leading risk indicators and escalation triggers are illustrated in Exhibit 4.7. 
 
Exhibit 4.7 
Leading Risk Indicators and Escalation Triggers 
 
Business Unit 
Objective Measure Target and 
Tolerance Potential Event Leading 
Indicator 
Escalation 
Trigger for 
Business Unit  
Develop 
product 
promotional 
campaign with 
supermarket 
chain in key 
region  
Number of 
units sold per 
month per 
store 
Target: 1,000 
units of new 
product sold 
per month per 
store during 
promotional 
campaign 
Tolerance : 
900– 1,250 
units sold per 
month per 
store 
Consumer 
confiden ce 
decreases , 
resulting in 
decreases in 
purchas es of the 
company’s 
products  
Consumer 
confidence 
indicators  
Consumer 
confidence 
decreases by 
more than 5% 
Create and 
maintain 
strong security 
against 
external 
intrusions on 
systems  
Number of 
successful 
intrusion s  
Target: 0 per 
month 
Tolerance : 0 
per month  
Unauthorized 
individuals 
access the 
company’s 
systems  via 
Internet ports  
Detected 
vulnerabilities in 
the company’s 
core operating 
systems  
published by the 
vendor/ third 
party; number of 
unauthorized 
attempts  
New critical 
vulnerabilities 
identified by 
third parties 
Comply with 
standards 
governing the 
movements of 
Volume of 
spills of 
hazardous 
materials 
Target:  <100 
gallons per 
year 
Tolerance: 0–  
Corrosion on 
barrels causes 
material to leak 
from trucks 
Age of barrels 
used to transport 
hazardous 
material 
Barrels in use for 
more than 85% 
of their estimated 
useful life Event Identification  
 
28 
Business Unit 
Objective Measure Target and 
Tolerance Potential Event Leading 
Indicator 
Escalation 
Trigger for 
Business Unit  
hazardous 
material  
transported by 
company staff 
125 gallons during transport  
Maintain 
stable high -
quality 
workforce 
Turnover of  
staff rated as 
high 
performers 
Target: 
Turnover of 
high 
performers < 
10% 
Tolerance : 2% 
– 12% 
High performers 
resign  
 
Staff morale of 
high performers 
 
High performers 
responding as 
“ very”  or 
“somewhat” 
dissatisfied  in 
annual employee 
survey  
Loss Event Data Tracking 
Monitoring relevant data can help an organization identify past events having a negative 
impact and quantify the associated losses, in order to predict future occurrences.  While event 
data typically are used in risk assessment –  based on actual experience with likelihood and 
impact –  they also can be useful in event identification by providing a basis for fact-based 
discussion, institutionalizing knowledge (particularly helpful where staff turnover is high), 
and serving as a source for understanding loss event interdependencies and developing 
predictive and causal models. 
 
Loss event databases developed and maintained by third party service providers are available 
on a subscription basis.  In some industries, such as banking, consortiums have formed to 
share internal data.   
 
Loss event databases contain information on actual events meeting specified criteria.  
Information in externally developed event databases can be useful to supplement internally 
generated information in estimating future event likelihood and impact, particularly for 
potential events with low likelihood (which a company is unlikely to have experienced in the 
past) but high impact.  One such database, for example, contains loss event data, across 
industries, on publicly reported operational losses in excess of one million dollars.   
 
Some companies track ranges of external data.  Large companies, for example, track a range 
of leading economic indicators to identify movements suggesting change in demand for their 
products and services.  Similarly, financial institutions monitor changes in world politics to 
identify leading indicators suggesting modification to future investment strategies and actual 
events calling for immediate change to investment portfolios.  
 
Use of internally generated data is illustrated in Exhibit 4.8, and externally developed data in 
Exhibit 4.9. 
 Event Identification  
29 
Exhibit 4.8 
Loss Event Tracking Using Internal Data 
 
A manufacturing company tracks production equipment failures, through automated routines that 
electronically monitor and capture disparate equipment diagnostic information.  By tracking the 
sequence of events, management is positioned to assess the underlying cause of a manufacturing 
process failure and the costs associated with equipment downtime.  Operations managers use the 
information in real time, diagnosing the cause and quickly making repair decisions.  Future 
maintenance schedules reflect known past equipment failures.  Periodically operations management is 
provided reports determining the effect of the equipment failures on a key unit of measure –  
production availability –  and associated monetized cost.  
 
Equipment Component Sub-
component Cause Downtime 
Duration 
Negative 
Effect on 
Production 
Availability 
Cost 
Pump #1 Motor Insulation  Overheating 
due to 
deterioration 
in insulation 
caused by 
excessive 
lead cable 
lengths 
1H: 20M 0.4% $24,000 
Pump #2 Motor Switch Product 
defect 
2H: 10M 0.7% $42,000 
Conveyor  Belting Roller Contamination 
in the ball oil  
4H: 45M 1.6% $95,000 
  
Exhibit 4.9 
Loss Event Tracking Using External Data 
 
A government agency is tasked with controlling the inflow of illegal drugs and other contraband 
through its ports.  Governments from multiple countries collect and share data, including: 
•  Port of origin 
•  Countries traveled through en route 
•  Ship carried on 
•  Type of goods carried 
•  Traditional cargo carried 
• Owner of vessel 
• Owner of goods 
• Receiver of goods 
• Value of goods 
• Delivery address 
• Frequency of trips  
The data are measured against predefined threshold triggers in order to more effectively target 
inspections. Event Identification  
 
30 
Ongoing Event Identification  
The techniques illustrated above typically are applied in particular circumstances, with 
varying frequency over time.  Potential events also are identified on an ongoing basis in 
connection with routine business activities.  Exhibit 4.10 illustrates some of those techniques, 
which are useful in bringing to light risks and opportunities that may be important to an 
entity’s achieving its objectives.  This exhibit demonstrates how one company matches its 
ongoing event identification mechanisms against external and internal factors that give rise to 
events, to aid in determining whether there is a need to take further action.   
 
Exhibit 4.10 
Illustrative Event Identification Mechanisms 
 
External Factors Internal Factors 
 Mechanism –  Input from  
Economic   
Natural 
Environment 
Political 
Social 
Technological 
Infrastructure 
Personnel 
Process 
Technology 
Industry/technical conferences ü ü ü ü ü ü ü ü ü 
Peer company websites and advertising 
campaigns ü    ü     
Political lobbyists   ü       
Internal risk management meetings      ü ü ü ü 
Benchmarking reports ü    ü ü ü ü ü 
Competitors’ regulatory filings ü   ü ü     
Key external indices  ü ü ü ü ü     
Key internal indices/risk & performance 
measures/scorecards      ü ü ü ü 
New legal decisions ü  ü ü      
Media reports ü ü ü ü ü     
Monthly management reports      ü ü ü ü 
Analyst reports ü  ü ü      
Electronic bulletin boards and 
notification services ü ü ü ü ü     
Industry, trade, and professional journals  ü ü ü ü ü     
Timing of new product launches versus 
competitors ü      ü ü ü 
Profiling calls to customer service ü    ü   ü  
Real-time feeds of financial market 
activity ü         Event Identification  
31 
Interrelationship of Events That May Affect Objectives  
In many circumstances multiple events can impact achievement of an objective.  To gain an 
understanding and insight into interrelationships, some companies use event tree diagrams, 
also known as fishbone diagrams.  An event tree diagram provides a means by which to 
identify and graphically represent uncertainty, generally focusing on one objective and how 
multiple events affect its achievement.  This technique is illustrated in Exhibit 4.11. 
 
Exhibit 4.11 
Linking Factors and Potential Events to Objective Unit of Measure 
 
A company that sells mattresses through retail outlets seeks to maintain a 30% margin on sales.  It 
looks to determine which factors and events affect product demand and cost of production –  either of 
which is likely to affect achievement of the 30% margin objective.  The objective is shown at the right 
end of the main “bone.”  At an angle to this main bone are sub-bones listing events that directly affect 
the objective.  Sub-bone events that positively affect achievement of the objective are depicted by an 
upward pointing arrow, and those with a negative effect by a downward arrow.  The related internal 
and external factors associated with the sub-bone events are identified at the left.    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Objective:
Maintain 
30% 
margin
Economic
Natural environment
Political
Social
Technological
Increases demand in south 
á
Increases sales tax rates 
â
New competitor enters market
Hurricane
Technology
Process
Personnel
Infrastructure
Change in sales tax rates
Increasing empty-nesters
Product comparison
via the Internet
Improved production scheduling 
á
Increased product 
warranty defects 
â
Union contract expires 
âá
New production 
equipment installed 
á
Increases demand 
á
Increases consumer 
knowledge 
áâ
Increases consumer choice 
â
Objective:
Maintain 
30% 
margin
Economic
Natural environment
Political
Social
Technological
Increases demand in south 
á
Increases sales tax rates 
â
New competitor enters market
Hurricane
Technology
Process
Personnel
Infrastructure
Change in sales tax rates
Increasing empty-nesters
Product comparison
via the Internet
Improved production scheduling 
á
Increased product 
warranty defects 
â
Union contract expires 
âá
New production 
equipment installed 
á
Increases demand 
á
Increases consumer 
knowledge 
áâ
Increases consumer choice 
âEvent Identification  
 
32 
Categorizing Events 
By grouping similar potential events, management can better determine opportunities and 
risks. 
Some entities categorize potential events to assist in ensuring event identification efforts are 
complete.  Categorization also can help to subsequently develop a portfolio view of risks.  A 
categorization used by one company, a hospital, is illustrated in Exhibit 4.12. 
 
Exhibit 4.12 
Illustrative Event Categorization 
 
• Acute 
intervention 
guidelines
• Ambulatory 
practices 
• Continuing 
care practices
• Diagnostic 
procedures
• Disease 
prevention
• Emergency 
services 
practices
• Palliative care 
practices
Economic TechnologyPopulation 
HealthFactors
Events
Service 
Delivery
Human 
Resources
• Funding
• Exchange 
rates
• Interest rate
• Credit 
defaults
• Long-term 
capital 
availability
• Emissions / 
waste 
products 
created 
• Natural 
disasters
• Lifestyle 
choices
• Social 
behaviors
• Industry 
standards 
• Employment 
opportunities
• Staff retention 
rates
• Physician and 
nursing 
staffing levels
• Evaluation 
procedures
• Health and 
safety  
practices
• System / data 
access 
protocols 
• Data and 
system
availability
• Available  
technologies 
• Systems 
(implemented 
or abandoned)
• Health records 
requirements
Natural 
Environment
Changes in 
• Acute 
intervention 
guidelines
• Ambulatory 
practices 
• Continuing 
care practices
• Diagnostic 
procedures
• Disease 
prevention
• Emergency 
services 
practices
• Palliative care 
practices
Economic TechnologyPopulation 
HealthFactors
Events
Service 
Delivery
Human 
Resources
• Funding
• Exchange 
rates
• Interest rate
• Credit 
defaults
• Long-term 
capital 
availability
• Emissions / 
waste 
products 
created 
• Natural 
disasters
• Lifestyle 
choices
• Social 
behaviors
• Industry 
standards 
• Employment 
opportunities
• Staff retention 
rates
• Physician and 
nursing 
staffing levels
• Evaluation 
procedures
• Health and 
safety  
practices
• System / data 
access 
protocols 
• Data and 
system
availability
• Available  
technologies 
• Systems 
(implemented 
or abandoned)
• Health records 
requirements
Natural 
Environment
Changes in Risk Assessment 
33 
5. RISK ASSESSMENT 
Framework Chapter Summary:  Risk assessment allows an entity to consider the extent to 
which potential events have an impact on achievement of objectives.  Management assesses 
events from two perspectives - likelihood and impact- and normally uses a combination of 
qualitative and quantitative methods.  The positive and negative impacts of potential events 
should be examined, individually or by category, across the entity.  Risks are assessed on both 
an inherent and a residual basis. 
 
This chapter illustrates some of the techniques used in risk assessment.  Included are 
illustrations of inherent and residual risk assessments; qualitative techniques including risk 
ranking and questionnaires; quantitative techniques including such probabilistic techniques as 
value at risk, market value at risk, loss distributions, and back-testing, and non-probabilistic 
techniques such as sensitivity analysis, scenario analysis, stress testing, and benchmarking.  
Also illustrated are techniques for risk and capital attribution used to estimate the amount of 
capital required for accepted risks; how risks may be portrayed in risk maps, heat maps, or 
numerical presentations; and techniques for entity-level views of risk. 
 
Inherent and Residual Risk  
Inherent risk is the risk to an entity in the absence of any actions management might take to 
alter either the risk’s likelihood or impact.  
An example of an inherent risk assessment, linking risks to objectives, is illustrated in Exhibit 
5.1 (which builds on Exhibit 4.1).   
 
Exhibit 5.1  
Inherent Risk Assessment 
 
Operations objective Hire 180 new qualified staff across all manufacturing divisions to meet 
customer demand without overstaffing 
Objective unit of 
measure  Number of new qualified staff hired 
Tolerance 165− 200 new qualified staff, with staff cost between 20% and 23% per 
dollar order 
Inherent risk assessment Risks Likelihood Impact 
Insufficient number 
of qualified 
candidates available 
20% 10% reduction in hiring à 18 
unfilled positions 
Initial candidate 
screening filters too 
stringent  
30% 
5% reduction in hiring due to poor 
candidate screenings à 9 unfilled 
positions 
 Risk Assessment 
 
34 
Residual risk is the risk that remains after management’s response to the risk. 
Residual risk reflects the risk remaining after management’s intended actions to mitigate an 
inherent risk have been effectively implemented.  These may include diversification strategies 
related to customers, products, or other concentrations; policies and procedures providing 
limits, authorizations, and other protocols; supervisory staff reviewing and acting on 
performance measures; or automating criteria to standardize and accelerate recurring 
decisions or transaction approvals.  These actions may reduce the likelihood of occurrence of 
a potential event, the impact of such event, or both.   
 
In the following example, management assesses the inherent risk in changes in foreign 
currency exchange rates, in terms of the effect on revenue generated by the company’s foreign 
operations.  In this case, management considered foreign exchange hedging as a risk response 
and reassessed the remaining exposure after reflecting the effects of the hedges.  The result of 
the risk assessment is illustrated in Exhibit 5.2.   
 
Exhibit 5.2 
Inherent and Residual Risk Assessment 
 
Operations objective  Operating income from foreign operations of $100 million 
Unit of measure Change in operating income from foreign operations 
Risk Exchange rate fluctuation adversely affects operating income from foreign 
operations 
Risk tolerance Acceptable variation is +/- $10,000,000 
Inherent risk assessment Residual risk assessment Risk Likelihood  Impact  
Risk 
response Likelihood Impact  
Foreign exchange 
rate moves up 1 
percentage point 
within 90 days 
10% $5,000,000 No 
response in 
place 
10% $5,000,000 
Foreign exchange 
rate moves up 1.5 
percentage points 
within 90 days 
4% $10,000,000 4% $5,000,000  
Foreign exchange 
rate moves up 3 
percentage points 
within 90 days 
1% $20,00,000 
Obtain 
foreign 
exchange 
hedge 
instruments 
to limit the 
impact  
1% $8,000,000 Risk Assessment 
35 
Qualitative and Quantitative Methodology and Techniques 
An entity’s risk assessment methodology comprises a combination of qualitative and 
quantitative techniques.  Management often uses qualitative assessment techniques where 
risks do not lend themselves to quantification or when either sufficient credible data required 
for quantitative assessments is not practically available or obtaining or analyzing data is not 
cost-effective.  Quantitative techniques typically bring more precision and are used in more 
complex and sophisticated activities to supplement qualitative techniques. 
Measurement Scales 
In estimating likelihood and impact of potential events, whether on an inherent or a residual 
basis, some form of measurement is applied.  For purposes of illustration, there are four 
general types of measurement, namely, nominal, ordinal, interval, and ratio.   
  
•  Nominal measurement –  This is the simplest form of measurement and involves 
grouping events by such categories as economic, technology, or natural environment. 
It does not involve any kind of ranking where one is deemed “more” than another.  
Numbers assigned in nominal measurement are for identification purposes only –  like 
numbers assigned to baseball players –  and items cannot be ordered, ranked, or added. 
•  Ordinal measurement –  In this type of measurement events are listed in order of 
importance, perhaps with such tags as high, medium, or low, or otherwise in rank-
order along a scale.  Management states that item one is greater than item two.  For 
instance, management may assess the likelihood of a new computer virus disrupting its 
systems as greater than the likelihood of staff’s unauthorized transmittals of 
confidential information. 
•  Interval measurement –  Interval measures use a scale of numerically equal distances.  
If, for instance, the impact of the loss of production of a key machine is measured as a 
“three,” the impact of a one-hour power outage as a “six,” and the effect of 100 vacant 
positions as a “nine,” management can state that the difference in potential impact 
between losing a machine and the one-hour power outage is the same as the difference 
between the one-hour power outage and having 100 vacant positions.  This does not 
mean, however, that the impact of the event measured as a “six” is twice as great as 
the impact of the event measured as a “three.” 
•  Ratio measurement –  A ratio measurement scale allows one to conclude that if the 
potential impact of one event is assigned a “three” and another event a “six,” the 
second event has twice the potential impact as the first.  This is possible because ratio 
measurement includes the concept of a true zero, whereas interval measurement does 
not. 
 
Used here, nominal and ordinal measures are considered “qualitative” techniques, whereas 
interval and ratio measures are quantitative. 
 Risk Assessment 
 
36 
Qualitative Techniques  
While some qualitative risk assessments are put forth in subjective terms, and others in more 
objective ones, the quality of the assessments depends largely on the knowledge and judgment 
of the individuals involved, their understanding of potential events, and the surrounding 
context and dynamics.   
 
The following exhibits portray qualitative assessments using ordinal measurement scales.  
Exhibit 5.3 illustrates a scale of the likelihood of events affecting computer operations.  In 
Exhibit 5.4, rankings are given to the range of potential impacts of the risk of a hazardous 
materials release.     
 
Exhibit 5.3 
Likelihood Risk Ranking Affecting Computer Operations (Next Quarter Timeframe) 
 
Level  Descriptor  Likelihood of Occurrence  Risk 
1 Rare  Very low   Technology systems shut down 
for prolonged periods by terrorist 
or other intentional action 
2  Unlikely  Low  A natural disaster or third party 
(e.g., utility) event requires 
invoking the business continuity 
plan 
3  Possible  Moderate  Hackers penetrate our computer 
security 
4  Likely  High  Internal staff use company 
resources to access inappropriate 
information from the Internet  
5  Almost certain  Very high  Internal staff use company 
resources for personal messaging  
 Risk Assessment 
37 
Exhibit 5.4 
Impact Risk Ranking of Hazardous Materials Release (One Year Timeframe) 
 
Objective   To manage hazardous materials in accordance with state and federal requirements 
Risk Units of Measure  
Unplanned release of hazardous material  
Production hours lost 
Containment costs 
Lost time injuries 
Compensation and related costs 
Level  Relative 
Impact  Measures  
1 Insignificant  •  No reportable incidents  
•  Minimal loss of production hours  
•  No injuries 
2 Minor  •  1– 2 reportable incidents 
•  Materials contained on-site by staff 
•  Effect less than 5% of day’s production hours 
•  No or minor injuries 
3 Moderate  •  Several reportable incidents 
•  Material contained on-site with outside assistance 
•  Effect between 5% and 20% of day’s production hours  
•  Out-patient medical treatment required 
4 Major  
 
•  Major reportable event 
•  Material released into environment, but without real or perceived 
detrimental effects 
•  Significant loss of production –  between 20% and 100% of day’s 
production hours 
•  Limited in-patient care required  
5 Catastrophic  •  Multiple major reportable events or a single catastrophic event 
•  Release into environment with significant detrimental effect, 
requiring significant third party resources 
•  Substantial loss of production capability –  more than two days’ 
production hours 
•  Significant injuries 
 
The questionnaire in Exhibit 5.5 is used by a company in a regulated industry in assessing 
risks related to implementing new information systems, using categorization and risk ranking 
of low (green), moderate (yellow), and high (red).   
 Risk Assessment 
 
38 
Exhibit 5.5 
Risk Assessment for New Systems Implementation 
 
Objective: Implement a new information system to oversee compliance with federal and state legislation 
Risk:  The project takes longer to complete than expected 
Category Question Response 
At least one staff member has successfully 
implemented such system before  
 
At least one staff member has implemented such 
system before, but with mixed results 
 
Personnel What is the experience of 
personnel on this project?  
No team member has done this before, or has with 
negative results  
 
Stable management team with average tenure >2 
years 
 
Changing management team with average tenure 
between 1 and 2 years 
 
Management 
process  
How stable is the 
management team? 
New management team with average tenure < 1 year  
Expansion of current services with alliance partner   
New service with existing vendor  
Vendor  How well known is the 
technology vendor?  
New vendor  
Proven methodology   
Existing methodology in place, but used with mixed 
results  
 
Implementation 
process  
How well established is 
the implementation 
process?  
New methodology   
Regulatory requirements are well established   
Regulatory requirements are unclear or subject to 
periodic amendment 
 
Regulatory How well are regulatory 
requirements known? 
Regulatory requirements are unknown or frequently 
subject to substantial change  
 
Successfully tested continuity  plan for the new 
application 
 
Tested continuity plan for the new application, with 
significant needed fixes identified 
 
Continuity plan How well tested is the 
continuity plan for this 
project? 
No continuity plan in place for the new application   
Quantitative Techniques 
Quantitative techniques can be used when enough information exists to estimate risk 
likelihood or impact using interval or ratio measures.  Quantitative methods include 
probabilistic, non-probabilistic, and benchmarking techniques.  An important consideration in 
quantitative assessment is availability of accurate data, either internally or externally sourced, 
and one of the challenges in using these techniques is obtaining enough valid data points.  
Probabilistic Techniques 
Probability-based techniques measure the likelihood and impact of a range of outcomes based 
on distributional assumptions of the behavior of events.  Probabilistic techniques include “at-
risk”  models (including value at risk, cash flow at risk, and earnings at risk), assessment of 
loss events, and back-testing. Risk Assessment 
39 
Value at Risk  
Value-at-risk (VaR) models are based on distributional assumptions about change in the value 
of an item or group of items, which is not expected to be exceeded with a given confidence 
level over a defined time period.  These models are used to estimate extreme ranges of value 
change expected to occur infrequently, such as the estimated level of loss that would not be 
expected to be exceeded with 95% or 99% confidence.  Management chooses both the desired 
confidence and the time horizon over which the risk is assessed, based, in part, on established 
risk tolerances.   
 
Value-at-risk measures sometimes are used to rationalize capital required for business units 
by estimating, with high confidence over a specified time horizon, the capital required to 
cover possible losses.  The period for capital measurement is set to coincide with the period of 
performance assessment.  
 
One application of value at risk is market value at risk, which is used by trading institutions to 
assess exposures to price changes affecting financial instruments and by some non-trading 
institutions as well.  Market value at risk is defined as the estimated maximum loss on an 
instrument or portfolio that can be expected over a given time horizon with specified 
confidence.  Exhibit 5.6 provides an example of a market-value-at-risk measure.   
 
Exhibit 5.6 
 Market-Value-at-Risk Analysis 
 
A financial services company assesses the risk of change in the value of its trading portfolio.  It 
estimates the maximum loss during any one day with 95% confidence, assuming portfolio value 
changes are represented by a normal distribution, which takes into account all possible scenarios.  
Value at risk is depicted as follows:   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The light blue area represents an estimate of losses that exceed the maximum loss estimated over one 
day with 95% confidence.   
  
Losses in excess of 
95% confidence  
Maximum  loss with 95% 
confidence  
Probability 
 -3 -2 -1 0 +1 +2 +3 
Change in market value ($ millions) Risk Assessment 
 
40 
Cash Flow at Risk 
This measure is similar to value at risk, except that it estimates a change in the cash flows of 
an organization or business unit relative to a targeted cash flow expectation with a given 
confidence over a defined time horizon.  This is based on distributional assumptions about the 
behavior of changes in cash flows.  Cash flow at risk is used for businesses whose results are 
sensitive to changes in cash flows related to non-market-price factors.  For example, a 
computer manufacturer desiring to measure risk to its net cash flows may use a cash-flow-at-
risk technique that includes either one variable such as a foreign currency rate, or multiple 
variables such as changes in gross domestic product, supply and demand for computer 
components, and corporate research and development budgets.  These measures would allow 
the company to assess its foreign currency risk in relation to cash flows, or its broader cash 
flow performance. 
Earnings at Risk
 
Similar to cash flow at risk, earnings at risk estimates a change in the accounting earnings of 
an organization or business unit, the amount of which is not expected to be exceeded with 
given confidence over a defined time period, based on distributional assumptions about the 
behavior of accounting earnings.  Exhibit 5.7 provides an example of an earnings-at-risk 
analysis.    
 
Exhibit 5.7 
Earnings-at-Risk Analysis 
 
Management of a pharmaceutical company determines the company’s earnings at risk by 
performing a Monte Carlo simulation on the revenue from sales of prescription drugs, 
research spending, and other income/expenses. In this example, management is 95% sure that 
earnings will be at least $1.10 per share. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 $1.10 1.25 1.50 1.75 2.00 
95% 
30% 
 
20% 
 
10% 
5% Risk Assessment 
41 
Loss Distributions 
Certain operational or credit loss distribution estimations use statistical techniques, generally 
based on non-normal distributions, to calculate maximum losses resulting from operational 
risks with a given confidence level.  These analyses require collection of operational loss data 
categorized by root cause of the loss, such as criminal activity, human resources, sales 
practices, unauthorized activity, management process, and technology.  Using these loss data 
and reflecting data on related insurance costs and proceeds, a preliminary loss distribution is 
developed and then refined to take into account the organization’s risk responses. 
Back-Testing 
In this context, back-testing typically consists of periodic comparison of an entity’s at-risk 
measures with subsequent profit or loss.  Back-testing commonly is used by financial 
institutions.  Some organizations, including many banks, routinely compare daily profits and 
losses with their risk model-generated outputs to gauge the quality and accuracy of their risk 
assessment systems, as illustrated in Exhibit 5.8. 
 
Exhibit 5.8 
Back-Testing Analysis 
 
 
 
 
 
 
h 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-Probabilistic Techniques 
Non-probabilistic techniques are used to quantify the impact of a potential event, based on 
distributional assumptions, but without assigning likelihood of event occurrence.  Thus, these 
techniques require that management determine likelihood separately.  Commonly used non-
probabilistic techniques are sensitivity analysis, scenario analysis, and stress testing. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         
Expected Loss
  
 
Back-Testing Aggregated Value at Risk and Loss from Credit Exposures  
($ millio ns) 
 
VaR 
99th  Percentile 
Actual Loss 
 2 4 6 8 10 
Time in Months  
Loss  
10 
8 
6 
4 
2 
 Risk Assessment 
 
42 
Sensitivity Analysis 
Sensitivity analysis is used to assess the impact of normal, or routine, changes in potential 
events.  Due to relative ease of calculation, sensitivity measures sometimes are used to 
complement a probabilistic approach.  Sensitivity analysis is used with:  
 
•  Operational measures, such as the effect of changes in sales volume on call center 
response time or number of manufacturing defects. 
•  Equity securities, using beta.  For equities, beta represents the ratio of the movements 
of an individual stock relative to the movements of an overall market portfolio or a 
proxy such as the S&P 500 index.  
 
Exhibit 5.9 illustrates use of a linear approximation to estimate changes in the value of a fixed 
income security.  This approximation (represented by the lighter line in the illustration) is 
constructed by using a fixed income sensitivity measure, which measures the change in value 
for a small change in interest rate (between 4½% and 5½% in the illustration), and uses that 
measure to approximate change in value for large changes (outside the 4½% to 5½% range).  
The difference between the actual value (represented by the heavier line) and approximated 
value is due to convexity.   
 
Exhibit 5.9 
Sensitivity Analysis of Fixed Income Instruments 
 
Linear Approximation to a Bond Price
-
20.00
40.00
60.00
80.00
100.00
120.00
140.00
160.00
180.00
200.00
0.0% 2.0% 4.0% 6.0% 8.0% 10.0% 12.0%
 Risk Assessment 
43 
Scenario Analysis  
Scenario analysis assesses the effect on an objective of one or more events.  Scenario analysis 
may be used in connection with business continuity planning or estimating the impact of a 
system failure or network failure, and reflects the effects across the business.  Scenario 
analysis may be performed in strategic planning as management seeks to link growth, risk, 
and return, as shown in Exhibit 5.10, where risks are assessed in terms of shareholder value 
added. 
 
Exhibit 5.10 
Analysis of Various Scenarios Across Multiple Business Units on  
Total Shareholder Value Added 
 
Impact of Key Potential Business Scenarios on Shareholder Value Added  
by Business Unit ($ Millions)  
Unit Potential Business Scenario Increase (Decrease) 
in SVA 
1 •  Risk rating deteriorates by 20% 
•  Consumer loans decrease by 10% 
•  Increased competition –  one new market entrant 
•  Revenue in the banking group decreases by 15% 
•  Loss of a top-tier customer 
•  …  
$ (150) 
(120) 
(100) 
(80) 
(50) 
…  
2 •  Increased competition –  one new market entrant 
•  Revenue declines by 10% due to customer service  
•  Loss of a top-tier customer 
•  Unsuccessful new product launch  
•  One new pending “large” (but not “mega”) lawsuit 
•  …  
 $  (50) 
(30) 
(20) 
(20) 
(20) 
…  
3 
 
 
 
•  Increased competition –  one new market entrant 
•  Loss of a top-tier customer 
•  Reduction of asset base by 10% 
•  …  
   $  (40) 
(30) 
(20) 
…  
Stress Testing 
Stress testing assesses the impact of events having extreme impact.  Stress testing differs from 
scenario analysis in that it focuses on the direct impact of a change in only one event or 
activity under extreme circumstances, as opposed to focusing on changes on a more normal 
scale as in scenario analysis.  Stress testing generally is used as a complement to probabilistic 
measures to examine the results of low likelihood, high impact events that might not be 
captured adequately by distributional assumptions used with probabilistic techniques.  Similar 
to sensitivity analysis, stress testing often is used to assess the impact of changes in 
operational events or financial market movements in order to avoid big surprises and losses.  
Stress tests include, for example, estimation of the effect of a rapid and large: Risk Assessment 
 
44 
•  Increase in product manufacturing defects 
•  Movement in a foreign exchange rate  
•  Movement in price of an underlying factor on which a derivative instrument is based 
•  Increase in interest rates on the value of a fixed income investment portfolio 
•  Increase in energy prices affecting the cost to run a manufacturing plant 
 
Benchmarking 
Some companies use benchmarking techniques to assess a specific risk in terms of likelihood 
and impact, where management seeks to enhance its risk response decisions to reduce either 
likelihood or impact.  Benchmark data can provide management insight into the likelihood or 
impact of risks based on experiences of other organizations.  Benchmarking also is used with 
respect to activities in a business process to identify opportunities for process improvement.  
 
Benchmarks include: 
 
•  Internal –  Compare measures of one department or division with others of the same 
entity 
•  Competitive/industry –  Compare measures among direct competitors or broader 
groups of companies with similar characteristics 
•  Best-in-class – Look at like measures among companies across industries 
 
An example of a competitive/industry benchmark is presented in Exhibit 5.11, which depicts 
the effect of events related to shrinkage within a peer group. 
 Risk Assessment 
45 
Exhibit 5.11 
Comparison of Inventory Losses  
 
Benchmarking of Shrink Percentage Among Peer Retail Operations 
 
Definition: Losses in physical inventory from events such 
as shoplifting  or other forms of theft.  Shrink percentage is 
defined as the value of lost  physical inventory divided by 
net sales.  
 
Analyzing performance:  Best practice companies reduce 
shrinkage by selecting risk responses and  designing 
control activities that reduce the likelihood and impact of 
inventory loss.  
 
Quartile 4: 1.80%– 3.50% 
Quartile 3: 1.30%– 1.80% 
Quartile 2: 0.88%– 1.30% 
Quartile 1: 0.33%– 0.88% 
 
Benchmark Group Your 
Company Low Median High 
 1.6% 0.33% 1.30% 3.50% 
 
Risk and Capital Attribution 
Some organizations, particularly financial institutions, estimate economic capital.  Some 
companies use this term to refer to the amount of capital required to cover financial 
exposures.  Others use it somewhat differently, as a measure of capital needed to run the 
business as planned.  It is used by management in strategy setting, resource allocation, and 
performance measurement.  An illustration is shown in Exhibit 5.12. 
 
1.6
0
0.5
1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
Shrinkage
Percent 1.6
0
0.5
1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
Shrinkage
PercentRisk Assessment 
 
46 
Exhibit 5.12 
Using Economic Capital 
 
A bank uses “economic capital” to estimate the amount of equity required.  It represents the level of 
equity capital required within a given time period, at a given confidence level.  For example, the bank 
adopts a 95% confidence level and two-year time period to determine its economic capital 
requirements.  After modeling its expected earnings distribution taking into account market, credit, 
operational, and fixed asset risk, management identifies its economic capital requirement as 
$120,638,000, as follows: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Recognizing the lack of precision in operational risk measurement methodology, and recognizing 
exposure beyond the 95% confidence level, the bank’s policy is to create an additional “capital 
cushion”  on top of its economic capital requirement to provide additional confidence that the 
calculated economic capital balance is sufficient.   
 
The bank also uses the relationship of economic capital to book capital as a guidepost in strategic 
direction.  When book capital minus the capital cushion is less than required economic capital, 
management looks to whether it should: 
•  Scale back certain business activities 
•  Raise additional equity 
•  Lower its risk positions in its lending, investing, or operational activities 
 
When book capital minus the capital cushion is greater than required economic capital, management 
considers opportunities to: 
•  Expand its business into new products or markets 
•  Take higher-risk positions in its lending, investing, or operational activities 
•  Return capital to shareholders 
Earnings ($m)
0
50
100
150
200
250
110,613 125,841 141,069 156,297 171,526
Earnings forecast
Probability
5%
10%
15%
20%
25%
120,638-120,638
NilRisk Assessment 
47 
Portraying Risk Assessments  
Organizations use any of a number of different methods to portray risk assessments.  
Portraying risks in a clear and concise manner is especially important with qualitative 
assessment because risks are not summarized in one number or range of numbers as with 
quantitative techniques.  Techniques include risk maps and numerical representations. 
Risk Maps 
A risk map is a graphic representation of likelihood and impact of one or more risks.  Risk 
maps may take the form of heat maps or process charts that plot quantitative or qualitative 
estimates of risk likelihood and impact.  Risks are depicted in a way that highlights which 
risks are more significant (higher likelihood and/or impact) and which are less significant 
(lower likelihood and/or impact).  Depending on the level of detail and depth of analysis, risk 
maps either can present the overall expected likelihood and/or impact or can incorporate an 
element of variability of likelihood and/or impact.  The following examples of risk maps 
depict assessment of risks relating to the objective of retaining high-performing employees. 
 
Exhibit 5.13 illustrates a heat map, presenting risk levels (likelihood and impact) by color, 
where red represents high risk, yellow moderate risk, and green low risk.  
 
Exhibit 5.13 
Heat Map 
 
A company assesses risks to its objective of maintaining a quality workforce.  Likelihood is 
considered in terms of percentage turnover within a specified period and impact in terms of cost of 
operational inefficiency and cost to replace, retrain, and develop employees.  Color coding 
highlights those risks that are most likely to occur and most likely to have a significant effect on 
objectives.  
 Topic  Risk Description  Likelihood  Impact 
A Compensation   Employee dissatisfaction with 
compensation leads to higher staff 
turnover. 
Possible Moderate 
B Recognition Employees feel unrecognized, resulting 
in reduced focus on tasks and higher 
error rates. 
Unlikely Minor 
C Downsizing Employees are over-utilized and work 
considerable overtime.  Staff leave to 
pursue work in other organizations that 
offer a better work/life balance. 
Likely Moderate 
D Demographics Changing demographic composition of 
the employee group causes increased 
turnover.  
Almost 
Certain Moderate  
E Employment 
market 
Increased demand for company 
employees by recruiting firms.  Unlikely  Moderate 
 Risk Assessment 
 
48 
 Topic  Risk Description  Likelihood  Impact 
F Performance 
evaluation  
Employee dissatisfaction with 
performance appraisal measures and 
processes causes low morale, staff  to 
focus on non-critical objectives, and loss 
of staff to companies perceived to be 
employers of choice  
Possible  Moderate 
G Communication  Ineffective communication between 
employees and management results in 
mixed messages being heard and in the 
pursuit of alternative employment. 
Possible  Moderate 
H Workplace 
safety 
Unsafe workplace causes employee 
injury and resignations by injured staff 
and by others concerned over safety 
issues. 
Unlikely Major  
I Career 
development 
Employees perceive limited control over 
their career development, causing higher 
turnover. 
Possible Moderate 
J Work diversity Employee dissatisfaction with job 
variety results in rote performance, 
higher errors in key processes, and 
pursuit of more interesting job 
opportunities outside the company. 
Possible Moderate 
 
These same risks can be depicted in a matrix risk map with likelihood on the horizontal axis 
and impact on the vertical, as illustrated in Exhibit 5.14.  Because this provides more 
information, management can more readily prioritize where attention is needed.      
 
Exhibit 5.14 
 Risk Map of Mean Values for Likelihood and Impact  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. Compensation
B. Recognition
C. Downsizing
D. Demographics
E. Employment market
F. Performance 
evaluation
G. Communication
H. Workplace safety
I. Career development
J. Work diversity1
2
3
4
5
1 2 3 4 5
Likelihood
Impact
A
E
G
C
B
F
H
D
J
I
A. Compensation
B. Recognition
C. Downsizing
D. Demographics
E. Employment market
F. Performance 
evaluation
G. Communication
H. Workplace safety
I. Career development
J. Work diversity1
2
3
4
5
1 2 3 4 5
Likelihood
Impact
A
E
G
C
B
F
H
D
J
IRisk Assessment 
49 
Exhibit 5.15 provides the same basic information, but in still further depth.  It presents 
information on variability around risk likelihood and impact, providing management with an 
additional perspective on the risks.   
 
Exhibit 5.15 
Risk Map Showing Variability for Likelihood and Impact  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Numerical Representations  
Depending on the business context, quantitative measures of risk can be presented in 
monetary or percentage terms, and can be presented with a specified confidence interval, for 
example, 95% or 99% confidence.  One example of a numerical representation is shown in 
Exhibit 5.6, with a value-at-risk measure.  Another is shown in Exhibit 5.10, with a 
shareholder-value-added measure using scenario analysis.  Another example is shown in 
Exhibit 5.16, illustrating risks related to customer concentrations.  In this exhibit, the largest 
customer is segmented by geographical region, providing information on regional exposure.   
 
F
A. Compensation
B. Recognition
C. Downsizing
D. Demographics
E. Employment market
F. Performance 
evaluation
G. Communication
H. Workplace safety
I. Career development
J. Work diversity
1
2
3
4
5
1 2 3 4 5
Likelihood
Impact
H
B JA
C
G
E
D
I
F
A. Compensation
B. Recognition
C. Downsizing
D. Demographics
E. Employment market
F. Performance 
evaluation
G. Communication
H. Workplace safety
I. Career development
J. Work diversity
1
2
3
4
5
1 2 3 4 5
Likelihood
Impact
H
B JA
C
G
E
D
IRisk Assessment 
 
50 
Exhibit 5.16 
Revenue Analysis by Customer  
11%8%
6%
4%
14%
18%
14%
13%
8%
4%
25%
Second Largest Customer
Third Largest Customer
Fourth Largest Customer
Fifth Largest Customer
Next 5 Largest Customers
Next 25 largest Customers
All Others
Largest Customer - North America
Largest Customer - South America
Largest Customer - Europe
 
Entity-Level Views   
As part of risk assessment, management may leverage business unit risk assessments or 
conduct a separate assessment using techniques illustrated earlier to form an entity-level risk 
profile.  Overall risk assessments may take the form of an aggregate risk measure where 
underlying risk measures are of like types and where correlations between risks are 
considered.  Another aggregation approach is to translate related but unlike risk measures to a 
common unit of measure, as shown in Exhibit 5.17. 
 
Exhibit 5.17 
Analysis of the Effect of Multiple Business Unit Measures 
on a Single Entity-Level Measure (EPS) 
 
This company assesses the 
risk impact within its 
respective departments using 
the units of measure 
established for the 
department:  equipment 
availability, customer 
payment default, and staffing 
levels.  These are portrayed 
in the following diagrams. 
At the entity level, 
management assesses risk in 
terms of entity earnings per 
share (EPS) as shown in the   
EPS 
1.850
1.900
1.950
2.000
2.050
2.100
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12
Months
Upper tolerance
Lower tolerance
Target
Staffing Levels
Equipment
Availability
Credit Default Rates
Risk-adjusted EPSRisk Assessment 
51 
first diagram, where the  
effect of each business unit 
measure is converted to the  
entity-level measure based 
on the budgeted contribution 
or loss from each activity.  
The dashed lines in the first 
diagram represent the upper 
and lower EPS risk 
tolerances. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Staffing Levels
850
900
950
1,000
1,050
1,100
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12
Months
Upper tolerance
Lower tolerance
Target
Risk adjusted
Credit Default 
0.0%
0.5%
1.0%
1.5%
2.0%
2.5%
3.0%
3.5%
4.0%
4.5%
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12
Months
Upper tolerance
Lower tolerance
Target
Risk adjusted
Equipment Availability
80.0%
85.0%
90.0%
95.0%
100.0%
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12
Months
Upper tolerance
Lower tolerance
Target
Risk adjustedRisk Assessment 
 
52 
When direct aggregation of risk measures is not possible, some managements find it useful to 
compile measures in a summary report in order to facilitate drawing conclusions and making 
decisions.  In these cases, even though measures are not directly aggregated, management 
subjectively places the risks on the same qualitative or quantitative scale to assess likelihood 
and impact of multiple risks to a single objective, or the effect of one risk on multiple 
objectives.   
 
For example, management of one company estimates the impact on EPS of several different 
events, as illustrated in Exhibit 5.18.  In this exhibit the effects on business units of a 100 
basis point decrease in foreign exchange rate naturally offset at the entity level, so that any 
actions taken by one or more of the business units to manage foreign exchange exposures 
could adversely affect the entity as a whole.  A 100 basis point increase in interest rate would 
only partially offset on an entity-wide basis, and management might respond to this risk either 
within one or more of the business units or at the entity level.  Similarly, for the risks related 
to movements in the price of raw material and pending union negotiations, management 
would decide where and how to respond, to keep within entity-level risk tolerances. 
 
Exhibit 5.18 
Analysis of the Effect of Multiple Risks Across Business Units (Dollar Amounts in 
Thousands Except EPS) 
 
Objective:  To achieve consistent earnings growth 
Risk Corp Div 1 Div 2 Div 3 Entity 
 
Business 
Unit 
Contribution  
Business 
Unit 
Contribution 
Business 
Unit 
Contribution  
Business 
Unit 
Contribution  
Earnings per 
Share 
Impact $(1,000) $600 $300 $100 $ 0.00 Decrease in local 
currency in 
relation to U.S. 
dollar by 100 
basis points 
Likelihood 20%  
Impact $ (750) $1,600 $800 $100 $ (0.035) Increase in 
interest rate by 
100 basis points Likelihood 20%  
Impact - $10,000 $5,000 $5,000 $  (0.40) Increase in raw 
materials price of 
10% Likelihood - 20% 30% 15%  
Impact - $5,000 $0 $1,000 $  (0.12) Pending union 
negotiations halt 
production for > 
10 days Likelihood - 10% 0% 25%  
 
Management of another company assesses the effect of a single event on multiple objectives, 
illustrated in Exhibit 5.19.  Using one of the risks addressed in Exhibit 5.18 –  union 
negotiations halting production for more than 10 days –  management assesses its effect on 
multiple objectives.  Risk Assessment 
53 
Exhibit 5.19 
Analysis of the Effect of a Single Risk Across Business Units  
 
Risk:  Pending union negotiations halt production for > 10 days 
  Div 1 Div 2 Div 3 Entity 
Objective Likelihood 10% 0% 25%  
Unit of 
Measure   Production  Hrs Production  Hrs Production  Hrs Earnings per 
Share Maintain a return on 
equity of 15%  Impact -50,000 0 -10,000 $ -.80 
Unit of 
Measure   - BU 
Contribution  - Earnings per 
Share Increase our market share 
in Europe 
Impact - -500 - -.45 
Unit of 
Measure   Units Sold Units Sold Units Sold Earnings per 
Share Increase annual sales per 
sales representative  Impact -50,000 0 -10,000 -.30 
Unit of 
Measure   Production Units  Production Units  Production Units  Earnings per 
Share 
Increase employee 
productivity  
Impact -25,000 0 -5,000 -.05 
 
  
 Risk Response  
55 
6. RISK RESPONSE 
Framework Chapter Summary:  Having assessed relevant risks, management determines how 
it will respond.  Responses include risk avoidance, reduction, sharing, and acceptance.  In 
considering its response, management assesses the effect on risk likelihood and impact, as 
well as costs and benefits, selecting a response that brings residual risk within desired risk 
tolerances.  Management identifies any opportunities that might be available, and takes an 
entity-wide, or portfolio, view of risk, determining whether overall residual risk is within the 
entity’s risk appetite.  
 
This chapter illustrates some of the techniques used in risk response.  Included are 
illustrations of techniques used in evaluating risk response alternatives in relation to risk 
tolerance, evaluating costs and benefits of alternative responses, and considering the portfolio 
view.    
Risk Responses:  Avoid, Reduce, Share, Accept 
For significant risks, an entity typically considers potential responses from a range of 
response options.  
Examples of risk responses for avoidance, sharing, reduction, and acceptance are presented in 
Exhibit 6.1. 
 
Exhibit 6.1 
Illustrative Risk Responses by Response Type 
 
Avoidance Sharing 
•  Disposing of a business unit, product line, 
geographical segment  
•  Deciding not to engage in new 
initiatives/activities that would give rise to 
the risks  
•  Insuring significant unexpected loss 
•  Entering into joint venture/partnership 
•  Entering into syndication agreements 
•  Hedging risks through capital market 
instruments 
•  Outsourcing business processes 
•  Sharing risk through contractual agreements 
with customers, vendors, or other business 
partners 
Reduction Acceptance 
•  Diversifying product offerings 
•  Establishing operational limits  
•  Establishing effective business processes 
•  Enhancing management involvement in 
decision making, monitoring 
•  Rebalancing portfolio of assets to reduce 
exposure to certain types of losses 
•  Reallocating capital among operating units 
•  “Self-insuring”  against loss 
•  Relying on natural offsets within a portfolio  
•  Accepting risk as already conforming to risk 
tolerances  Risk Response  
 
56 
At the completion of its risk response actions, management may have a view of individual 
risks and responses and their alignment with associated tolerances, as illustrated in Exhibit 6.2 
(which builds on Exhibit 5.1). 
 
Exhibit 6.2  
Linking Objectives, Events, Risk Assessment , and Risk Response  
 
Operations objective •  Hire 180 new qualified staff across all manufacturing divisions to meet 
customer demand without overstaffing 
•  Maintain 22% staff cost per dollar order 
Objective unit of 
measure  Number of new qualified staff hired 
Tolerance  165– 200 new qualified staff, with staff cost between 20% and 23% per dollar 
order 
Inherent risk assessment  Residual risk assessment  Risks  Likelihood  Impact  
Risk 
response  Likelihood  Impact  
Decreasing number 
of qualified 
candidates available 
20% 
10% 
reduction in 
hiring à 18 
unfilled 
positions 
Contract in 
place with a 
third party 
hiring agency 
to source 
candidates 
10% 
10% 
reduction in 
hiring à 18 
unfilled 
positions 
Unacceptable 
variability in our 
hiring process 
30% 
5% reduction 
in hiring due 
to poor 
candidate 
screenings à 
9 unfilled 
positions 
Review of 
hiring 
process 
conducted 
every two 
years 
20% 
2% reduction 
in hiring due 
to poor 
candidate 
screenings à 
4 unfilled 
positions 
Alignment with risk 
tolerance 
Response expected to bring company within risk tolerance 
Considering Risk Responses  
As with assessing inherent risk, residual risk may be assessed qualitatively or quantitatively.  
Generally, the same measures used in assessing inherent risk are used in assessing residual 
risk.  The approach taken by one company is illustrated in Exhibit 6.3.  
 Risk Response  
57 
Exhibit 6.3  
Effect of Risk Response on Residual Risk 
 
Strategic objective  Expand product offerings related to health -based cat foods  
Operations objective  Generate $30 million in “year -one” revenue by i ntroduc ing one new “healthy -cat ” 
product  
Unit of measure Revenue from new products   
Risk tolerance $25– 35 million in new revenue  
Inherent Risk  Residual Risk  Risks 
Likelihood 
Impact on 
Revenue from 
New Product 
Risk Response 
Alternatives  Likelihood Impact 
 A –  Provide 
additional funding to 
the R&D and 
Production divisions 
to reach market 
within the next 90 
days  
 20% 
 
 15% less 
revenue from 
new products 
($4,500,000) 
Competitor reaches 
market first 
  
40% ($10,000,000)  
B –  Take no specific 
action to be first to 
market 
40% ($10,000,000) 
C –  Co-brand product 
with an established  
third party 
20% 
10% less 
revenue from 
new product   
($3,000,000)  
D –  Pilot in test 
market; modify 
marketing approach 
accordingly  
15% 
15% less 
revenue from 
new product 
($4,500,000)  
Market acceptance 
of this new product 
is slower than 
market research 
suggests  
25% ($15,000,000) 
E –  Take no action to 
ensure market 
acceptance  
25% ($15,000,000) 
 
For some risks, management may rely on multiple techniques to reduce the overall residual 
risk in order to meet its risk tolerance.  Exhibit 6.4 illustrates how a company uses multiple 
risk response techniques to reduce the risk of non-compliance with local environmental laws 
and regulations.  In this example, management has not evaluated the effect of each risk 
response selected but has evaluated them together to establish residual risk. 
 Risk Response  
 
58 
Exhibit 6.4 
Multiple Risk Responses  
 
Compliance 
objective 
Pesticides are used at the company premises in accordance with all relevant 
environmental laws and regulations 
Unit of measure Rate of compliance 
Target 100% compliance  
Risk tolerance 98%– 100% 
Inherent Risk Residual Risk  Risks 
Likelihood Impact  
Selected Risk 
Response  Likelihood Impact  
Distribution of all 
pesticides for use 
on company 
grounds is 
coordinated 
through the 
Facilities 
Department 
A web-based 
notification form 
is completed by 
all grounds 
persons setting 
out key details 72 
hours before 
pesticides are 
applied 
Pesticides are 
sprayed in prohibited 
areas 
Moderate 
Fines, 
sanctions, 
reputational 
damage 
All prohibited 
areas are clearly 
marked 
 Low 
Fines, 
sanctions, 
reputational 
damage 
Costs versus Benefits 
Virtually every risk response will incur some direct or indirect cost that is weighed against the 
benefits it creates.  The initial cost to design and implement a response (processes, people, 
and technology) is considered, as is the cost to maintain the response on an ongoing basis.  
The costs, and associated benefits, can be measured quantitatively or qualitatively,  
with the unit of measure typically consistent with that used in establishing the related 
objective and risk tolerance.  A cost– benefit analysis is illustrated in Exhibit 6.5. 
 
 Risk Response  
59 
Exhibit 6.5 
Evaluating the Costs and Benefits of Alternative Risk Responses 
 
A supplier to the automotive industry manufactures aluminum suspension modules.  The supplier is in 
a “tandem” relationship with an original equipment manufacturer (OEM), where the vast majority of 
revenue is generated with the OEM.  This OEM traditionally revises its forecasted demand by an 
average of 20%, always late in the cycle, creating a high degree of uncertainty for the supplier’s 
production and scheduling activities.  If the OEM were not to significantly revise demand late in the 
cycle, the supplier would be able to increase plant utilization by increasing its manufacturing of 
products for other customers, thereby increasing profitability.  The supplier seeks to optimize 
scheduling and capacity planning for plant utilization to achieve 95% average monthly utilization.  
Management assessed the most significant risk to this objective –  that is, the high level of uncertainty 
regarding actual demand from the OEM –  and assessed costs and benefits of the following risk 
responses: 
 
A Accept –  Absorb the cost of having to respond to late changes in OEM demand, and consider 
the extent to which it can produce and sell product to other customers within the constraints of 
the OEM relationship  
B Avoid –  Exit the relationship with the OEM, and establish relationships with new customers 
offering more stable demand 
C Share –  Negotiate a revision to the current contract, stipulating a “take or pay” clause to 
ensure a certain rate of return 
D Reduce –  Install a more sophisticated forecasting system, which analyzes external factors 
(e.g., public information on consumer budgets, OEM and dealership inventories) and internal 
factors (historical orders from various sources) to better project actual demand from all 
customers 
 
The following table compares the costs and benefits of these responses. Costs relate predominantly to 
supply chain management, marketing, information technology, and legal functions.  Benefits are 
expressed using the unit of measure for the objective –  plant utilization –  and the resulting effect on 
targeted earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT). 
Response  Cost Description Benefits 
A Accept  $750,000 Marketing/sales efforts required to 
generate additional customers, and 
additional transportation costs , 
$750,000 
Management  predicts it can sell an 
additional 2% to other customers, 
bringing utilization up to 82% 
 
Effect on EBIT:  increase of $1,250,000 
Unit price drops 2% due to smaller 
customers paying less than premium 
price 
$750,000 in increased salary costs for 
personnel required to identify, win , 
and sustain new customers  
$250,000 in increased outbound 
logistics costs due to larger number of 
suppliers  
B Avoid $1,500,000 
$500,000 in legal fees to negotiat e 
and finalize new agreements  
Marketing efforts allow utilization of 
97% 
 
Effect on EBIT:  increase of $1,560,000 
 Risk Response  
 
60 
Response  Cost  Description Benefits 
Unit price drops 5% due to increased 
pressure from OEM in response to 
“ take or pay”  nature of relationship 
New contract allows utilization of 99% 
 
Effect on EBIT:  increase of $100,000  
$250,000 in legal fees to negotiate 
and revise contract agreement  
C Share $350,000 
$100,000 to improve data sharing, 
forecasting , and planning  
 
Average unit price drops 1% due to 
smaller customers not paying 
premium price 
$500,000 for purchasing new software 
$50,000 for new software training 
D Reduce $1,050,000 
$500,000 for increased forecasting 
and analysis  
Improved forecasting provides sufficient 
time to win alternative customers for a 
utilization of 98% 
 
Effect on EBIT:  increase of $3,170,000 
With this analysis, and considering the likelihood of each alternative and sustainability of results, 
management decided on response D. 
 
Portfolio View of Residual Risk  
With a view of risk for individual units, an enterprise’s senior management is well positioned 
to take a portfolio view, to determine whether the entity’s residual risk profile is 
commensurate with its overall risk appetite relative to its objectives. 
A portfolio view of risk can be depicted in any of a number of ways.  Exhibit 6.6 illustrates 
how a company assesses risks from across the organization.  The likelihood of events is 
presented in the context of frequency of occurrence, and the potential impact using a single 
entity unit of measure –  operating earnings.  
 Risk Response  
61 
Exhibit 6.6 
Portfolio View of Residual Risk  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit 6.7 illustrates how managers of a company’s business units establish objectives, risk 
tolerances, and performance measures relevant to their operations in terms of business unit 
contribution.  The business units’ risk assessments then are presented as a portfolio view, 
enabling entity-level management to consider the units’ risks, by objective, in terms of an 
earnings per share measure relative to the entity as a whole. 
 
Exhibit 6.7 
Portfolio View of Residual Risk  
 
A company that manufactures and distributes inflatable rafts for personal recreational use has its 
corporate headquarters in southern California, and two business units, one in South Carolina and the 
other in Oregon.  The company assessed its key risks, which are changes in interest rates, which 
correlate directly to customer demand for its product; unexpected increases in the price of raw 
materials; and the potential of a work stoppage.  Management assessed the risks, developed risk 
responses, and formed a portfolio view in terms of earnings per share.  Some risk responses, such as 
the hedging program to reduce the effect of changing interest rates and the negotiating strategy to 
reduce the likelihood of a work stoppage, are coordinated and executed at the entity level.  Other 
responses, such as the decision to enter into long-term contracts to reduce the likelihood and impact of 
unexpected raw materials price increases, and the redistribution of production scheduling to other 
regions to reduce the impact of a work stoppage, are executed at the regional level.
A Access to capital: Insufficient funds available 
to business unit
B Supplier effectiveness:  Supplier fails to 
deliver on commitments
C Process efficiency:  While effective, 
processes are too complex or manual to be in 
top tier when compared to leading practices
D Process effectiveness:  Processes are not as 
effective, resulting in defective outputs
E Litigation:  Risk of recall and class action 
lawsuits
F Asset management
G Demand:  Inability to meet consumer demand
H Intellectual property:  Impact of patent 
infringements or R&D leaks
I Leadership:  Right people to drive business 
and efficient decisions
J Governance:  Sarbanes-Oxley, ethics & 
government compliance
K Systems:  Upgrades, enhancements
L Concentration: Effectiveness of 
concentrations (e.g. customers, product 
categories, geographies, etc…)
M Competition:  New low cost competitors
N Interdependencies: Between Business Units
O Economic
P Employee Safety
Q Government regulations
R Employee capabilities:  Skills, Losing key 
employees
S Data confidentiality
$ 50
$200
$150
$100
Low
>3 years
Medium
1 to 3 years
High
Once or more per year
Impact on  Operating Earnings 
(In Millions) 
Frequency of Occurrence
$250
$300
A
B
F
L
C
DE
G H
I
J
K
M
N
O
Q
R
S
P
Event Category
A Access to capital: Insufficient funds available 
to business unit
B Supplier effectiveness:  Supplier fails to 
deliver on commitments
C Process efficiency:  While effective, 
processes are too complex or manual to be in 
top tier when compared to leading practices
D Process effectiveness:  Processes are not as 
effective, resulting in defective outputs
E Litigation:  Risk of recall and class action 
lawsuits
F Asset management
G Demand:  Inability to meet consumer demand
H Intellectual property:  Impact of patent 
infringements or R&D leaks
I Leadership:  Right people to drive business 
and efficient decisions
J Governance:  Sarbanes-Oxley, ethics & 
government compliance
K Systems:  Upgrades, enhancements
L Concentration: Effectiveness of 
concentrations (e.g. customers, product 
categories, geographies, etc…)
M Competition:  New low cost competitors
N Interdependencies: Between Business Units
O Economic
P Employee Safety
Q Government regulations
R Employee capabilities:  Skills, Losing key 
employees
S Data confidentiality
$ 50
$200
$150
$100
Low
>3 years
Medium
1 to 3 years
High
Once or more per year
Impact on  Operating Earnings 
(In Millions) 
Frequency of Occurrence
$250
$300
A
B
F
L
C
DE
G H
I
J
K
M
N
O
Q
R
S
P
Event CategoryRisk Response  
62 
 
  Inherent Risk Risk Response  Actions Residual Risk 
Risk  Corp Oregon South 
Carolina 
Entity  Corp Oregon South Carolina Entity   
 Unit of 
Measure Business Unit Contribution  Earnings per 
Share     Earnings per 
Share 
Impact  
–  50 BPS $ 100 á $ 80 â $ 38 â 0.10 net â $0.05â 
–  100 BPS $ 200 á $ 160 â $ 75 â 0.20 net â $0.10â 
–  200 BPS $ 400 á $ 320 â $ 150 â 0.40 net â 
Reduce –  hedge program at entity level 
$0.20â 
Likelihood 
–  50 BPS 25% 25% 
–  100 BPS 10% 10% 
The U.S. 
interest rate 
changes by 
50, 100, and 
200 basis 
points (BPS) 
in next 12 
months 
–  200 BPS 4% 
 
4% 
Impact - $ 100 â $ 50 â 0.07 â N/A N/A $0.05â Price of raw 
materials 
increases by 
10% 
Likelihood - 15% 20%  N/A 
Reduce –  
Long-term 
contracts put in 
place for raw 
materials 
Accept – 
No actions taken 
to alter potential 
price changes for 
key materials N/A 10% 
 
 Unit of 
Measure 
Production Hours Lost 
 
Earnings per 
Share     Earnings per 
Share 
Impact - 4,000 3,000 0.02 N/A 
Reduce – 
Production 
capacity equal to 
50% of output  
available 
through alliance 
partners  
Accept/Reduce 
–  Production 
capacity equal to 
40% of output 
transferable to 
Oregon, if 
operating 
N/A .01â Pending 
union 
negotiations 
halt 
production 
for one week 
Likelihood - 15% 3%  N/A 
Reduce –   Effective negotiating 
strategy developed by management 
team to successfully avert work 
stoppage  
 
5% 
 Control Activities  
63 
7. CONTROL ACTIVITIES  
Framework Chapter Summary:  Control activities are the policies and procedures that help 
ensure that management’s risk responses are carried out.  Control activities occur throughout 
the organization, at all levels and in all functions.  They include a range of activities - as 
diverse as approvals, authorizations, verifications, reconciliations, reviews of operating 
performance, security of assets, and segregation of duties.  
 
This chapter illustrates how control activities support risk responses, and how control 
activities themselves may serve as a risk response.   
Integration with Risk Response 
Having selected risk responses, management identifies control activities needed to help 
ensure that the risk responses are carried out properly and in a timely manner.   
Exhibit 7.1 provides illustrations of how control activities align with each of the response 
types of avoidance, reduction, sharing, and acceptance. 
 
Exhibit 7.1 
Risk Responses and Control Activities 
 
•  Risk Avoidance  –  In looking to improve operating margins, a software company’s 
management considered moving programming activities to a country with lower labor costs.  
After assessing the associated risks, management decided such a move is outside the 
company’s risk appetite, and that contracting of programming activities will be done only 
within the company’s home country.  To help ensure the policy decision is properly 
implemented, the “New Programmer”  form was amended to include the country of vendor 
operations, which information is reviewed and (electronically) signed by senior management 
as the basis of programmer selection.   
•  Risk Reduction  –  A hospital’s management recognized that its ability to protect the health 
and well-being of its patients would be adversely affected by disruption in electrical power 
supply.  Management responded by installing back-up electrical generators.  To help ensure 
that the generators operate when needed, the company’s engineering department conducts 
routine maintenance, with maintenance logs reviewed monthly by the head of the engineering 
department. 
•  Risk Sharing –  A manufacturing company determined that a prolonged disruption to its plant 
would significantly impact its ability to meet its production targets.  Based on assessment of 
the company’s capital position, its risk tolerance, and cost of sharing the risk with an insurer, 
management approved purchasing insurance coverage for the value of lost production for a 
period of up to six months.  To help ensure that the response is implemented, the Chief Risk 
Manager periodically reviews the company’s coverage, as well as compliance with all  
 negotiated terms and conditions of the agreement with the insurer, and reports to the Chief 
Operating Officer on compliance. Control Activities  
64 
 
•  Risk Acceptance  –  A company’s management identified changes in world commodity prices 
as a risk.  After assess ing the risk likelihood and impact and considering the company’s risk 
tolerance, management decided to accept the risk.  Management instituted a policy whereby 
the Treasury Department formally reassesses the exposure every three months and reports to 
the management committee its recommendation on whether a hedging strategy should be 
adopted.    
Control Activities Serving as Risk Response 
While control activities generally are established to ensure risk responses are appropriately 
carried out, with respect to certain objectives, control activities themselves are the risk 
response. 
In some circumstances control activities themselves serve as the risk response.  This 
frequently is the case with respect to risks related to reporting objectives.  Exhibit 7.2 
provides an illustration.   
 
Exhibit 7.2 
Relationship Between Objectives, Risks, Responses, and Control Activities 
 
Reporting 
objective  
Asset acquisitions and expenses incurred are entered for processing 
completely (C) and accurately (A), and are valid/occurred (V) 
Unit of measure  Financial reporting errors detected, measured in dollars  
Target Errors in monthly financial statements are less than $100,000 
Tolerance  Errors less than $110,000 
Inherent risk assessment  Residual risk assess ment Risks  Likelihood Impact 
Risk 
response  Likelihood  Impact 
Vendor invoice 
amounts are 
captured 
incorrectly  
Possible 
Minor 
$5,000–  
$15,000 
Unlikely 
Minor 
$2,500–  
$7,500 
Vendor invoices 
are not received 
prior to the month-
end cutoff  
Almost 
Certain 
Moderate 
$10,000–  
$25,000 
Possible 
Minor 
$2,500–  
$7,500 
Vendors are paid 
from statements as 
well as invoices, 
resulting in 
duplicate payments  
Possible 
Minor 
$5,000–  
$15,000 
See below 
for control 
activities that 
serve as the 
responses to 
these risks 
Unlikely 
Minor 
$5,000–  
$7,500 Control Activities  
65 
Control Activities  •  Asset acquisition and expense transactions are subjected to 
programmed edit/validation checks which include: 
 -   Purchasing data (PO number, amount, etc.) are validated against 
specified files or tables (A) 
 - Key fields are tested for blanks, alphas, values within a specified 
range (e.g., purchase amounts), missing data elements (e.g., 
payment due date), and programmed check digits (e.g., vendor 
number) (A) 
 - Reasonableness tests are performed, comparing data input in two 
or more different fields based on specified criteria  (e.g., sales tax 
rate is compared with the state tax rate based on the vendor’s zip 
code) (A) 
 - Edit checks compare key amounts with tables to ensure input data 
are within limits established for each user or class of user (e.g., 
payment amounts are compared with approval limits for electronic 
payment) (A) 
 - Edit checks compare vendor name/number and invoice numbers 
with those on file to ensure valid vendor and to detect duplicate 
payments (V) 
•  All payment transactions input are matched to the original purchase 
order details before further processing may occur (A) 
•  Payment amounts, including electronic payment transactions, are 
verified on screen by someone other than the staff member 
responsible for the original payment information (A,V) 
•  Staff reconcile each batch or series of on-line transactions with 
system edit or processing reports (A,C) 
•  Exception reports are produced listing large or unusual items (e.g., 
amounts exceeding $100,000), which are then individually compared 
with input documents (A) 
•  Exception reports produce a listing of unmatched purchase orders 
open for more than 30 days, which are then followed up (C) 
•  Changes to user-defined system parameters (e.g., authorization 
limits) are automatically reported and checked by an independent 
official (A,C,V) 
•  Overrides of system warnings by the user are automatically reported 
for independent approval (A,C,V) 
 
Exhibit 7.3 provides additional illustrations of control activities that also may be the risk 
response.  
 Control Activities  
66 
Exhibit 7.3 
Control Activities as a Risk Response 
 
•  To ensure that pension obligations and costs are reported properly in the financial statements, 
management reviews the company’s demographic data and the methods and assumptions used 
by the actuary, and compares amounts in the actuary’s report with those in the financial 
statements and related footnotes.   
•  To help ensure that a company’s monthly income tax remittances are made in compliance with 
regulations, an electronic tickler file prompts staff with due dates for tax filings, and a 
supervisor verifies timely remittance. 
•  To help ensure that computer interfaces between general ledger systems operate to effect 
complete and accurate processing, transaction totals from subsidiary systems are compared 
with the balance in the general ledger control account, with any differences reported and 
followed up. 
•  To help minimize inventory losses, transfer documents are reviewed and approved by the 
warehouse supervisor before goods are released. 
•  To help ensure that only tested and accepted programs are transferred from test to production 
libraries, transfers are made only based on completion of testing and related approvals and 
authorization of the IT and user line/department managers. 
 
 Information and Communication  
67 
8. INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION 
Framework Chapter Summary:  Pertinent information is identified, captured, and 
communicated in a form and timeframe that enable people to carry out their responsibilities.  
Information systems use internally generated data, and information from external sources, 
providing information for managing risks and making informed decisions relative to 
objectives.  Effective communication also occurs, flowing down, across, and up the 
organization.  All personnel receive a clear message from top management that enterprise 
risk management responsibilities must be taken seriously.  They understand their own role in 
enterprise risk management, as well as how individual activities relate to the work of others.  
They must have a means of communicating significant information upstream.  There is also 
effective communication with external parties, such as customers, suppliers, regulators, and 
shareholders.  
 
This chapter illustrates how information is obtained and flows in an organization and is used 
and presented to support enterprise risk management.  Also illustrated are techniques that 
facilitate communication supporting effective enterprise risk management. 
 
Information 
Information is needed at all levels of an organization to identify, assess, and respond to risks, 
and to otherwise run the entity and achieve its objectives.  
Information both from external sources and internally generated is obtained and analyzed in 
setting strategy and objectives, identifying events, analyzing risks, determining risk responses, 
and otherwise effecting enterprise risk management and carrying out other management 
activities.  A broad-based, generic depiction of information flows into, out of, and within an 
entity to support its ongoing management is shown in Exhibit 8.1 (taken from the Internal 
Control – Integrated Framework Evaluation Tools Reference Manual, and drawn from 
Competitive Advantage, M. E. Porter).  Further detail on information flows is shown in the 
Internal Control –  Integrated Framework Evaluation Tools Reference Manual.   
 Information and Communic ation 
68 
Exhibit 8.1 
Information and Communication  
69 
In addition to information flows into and within an organization, there are flows among 
activities inherent in the enterprise risk management components.  Exhibit 8.2 illustrates how 
these information flows may be conceptualized.    
 
Exhibit 8.2 
Information Flows Within Enterprise Risk Management   
 
Event Identification
Control Activities
Risk Response
Risk Assessment
Objective Setting
Internal Environment
• Objectives 
• Units of measure
• Inventory of 
opportunities
• Risk management philosophy
• Risk appetite
• Inventory of 
risks
• Risk 
responses
• Residual risks 
assessed
• Risk responses 
• Portfolio view
Monitoring
• Risk 
tolerances
• Inherent risks 
assessed
• Outputs
• Indicators
• Reports
Event Identification
Control Activities
Risk Response
Risk Assessment
Objective Setting
Internal Environment
• Objectives 
• Units of measure
• Inventory of 
opportunities
• Risk management philosophy
• Risk appetite
• Inventory of 
risks
• Risk 
responses
• Residual risks 
assessed
• Risk responses 
• Portfolio view
Monitoring
• Risk 
tolerances
• Inherent risks 
assessed
• Outputs
• Indicators
• ReportsInformation and Communic ation 
70 
Technology is applied to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of information processes.  
Exhibit 8.3 illustrates how a company may utilize information technology to support the 
timely use of information in an event identification process. 
 
Exhibit 8.3 
Use of Information Technology in Event Identification 
 
As part of the event identification process, a chain of automotive dealerships regularly reviews leading 
newspapers, business publications, and trade journals to keep track of changes in the competitor 
landscape.  Initially done manually, as described in the first bulleted item below, the process was 
automated, as described in the second.   
 
•  A researcher reviewed hard copy of selected publications on a daily, weekly, and monthly 
basis, provided the information to applicable managers for analysis, and developed related 
reports.  The reports were distributed to unit leaders and others for consideration in the risk 
assessment process.  This process normally took 24– 48 hours to complete each week, month, 
and quarter. 
•  The company now subscribes to Internet libraries, and the researcher uses web-based search 
engines to identify relevant information, and attaches “relevance” ratings to the information.  
The captured information is analyzed, and reports are distributed electronically to the 
responsible managers.  Including the manual analysis, the process now takes only several 
hours to complete, and garners a broader array of relevant information.   
 
Strategic and Integrated Systems 
The design of an information systems architecture and acquisition of technology are 
important aspects of entity strategy, and choices regarding technology can be critical to 
achieving objectives. 
Technology plays a critical role in enabling the flow of information in an organization, 
including information directly relevant to enterprise risk management.  The selection of 
specific technologies to support enterprise risk management for an organization typically is a 
reflection of the: 
 
•  Entity’s approach to enterprise risk management and its degree of sophistication 
•  Types of events affecting the entity  
•  Entity’s overall information technology architecture 
•  Degree of centralization of supporting technology 
 
In some organizations, information is managed separately by unit or function, whereas others 
have integrated systems.  Exhibit 8.4 illustrates the loan origination and risk management 
functions of a corporate bank, where information is developed by functional unit and shared 
as needed with others in the organization. 
.   
 Information and Communication  
71 
Exhibit 8.4 
Loan Origination Information Flows 
 
Individual functions –  marketing, risk management, legal, and operations –  are each supported by their 
own technology, which captures, maintains, and reports relevant information, which then is shared 
across the organization. 
Product
Processors
Marketing
Collateral
Credit Risk
Calc and
Monitoring
Portfolio Mgt
Legal
Agreements
Credit
Approval
Intraday
Credit Risk
Interface
GL
Information
Mgt. & Recon
Risk/MIS
Standards
Market Risk
Calc and
Monitoring
Intraday
Market Risk
Interface
Back Office
Interface
Credit Risk ReportingMarket Risk Reporting
Security
Workflow Management
Marketing
Risk
Legal
Operations
  
 
With added focus on information needed for risk management, some organizations have 
enhanced their technology architectures to allow greater connectivity and usability of data, 
with some using the Internet and data interchange capabilities.  Web services-based 
information strategies enable real-time information capture, maintenance, and distribution 
across units and functions, often enhancing information capture, better controlling multiple 
sources of data, minimizing manual processing of the data, and enabling automated analysis, 
retrieval, and reporting. 
Under an open architecture, technologies such as XBRL, XML, and Web services are used to 
facilitate data aggregation, transfer, and connectivity between disparate or stand-alone 
systems.  XBRL, the acronym for eXtensible Business Reporting Language, is derived from 
XML (eXtensible Markup Language).  XBRL is an open, royalty-free, Internet-based 
information standard for business reporting of all kinds.  XBRL labels data so that they are 
provided with context that remains with them and brings conformity to the names by which 
they are recognized by disparate software.  Information and Communic ation 
72 
Web services is an Internet protocol for transporting data between disparate applications, 
within a company’s boundaries or across companies.  XBRL, used with Web services, 
facilitates automated information exchange across diverse platforms and different applications 
and automates business reporting processes.  Exhibit 8.5 illustrates how XBRL and Web 
services can improve the efficiency of the reporting processes for the loan processing 
activities identified in Exhibit 8.4. 
 
Exhibit 8.5 
Integration of Systems  
 
 
Exhibit 8.6 illustrates how two organizations address the requirements of multiple 
constituents and leverage information across functions using XBRL and Web services.   
Information and Communication  
73 
Exhibit 8.6 
Data, Systems Integration 
 
•  A telecommunications company uses XBRL and Web services to automate its billing process.  
Using an XBRL telecom billing taxonomy, transaction-level data are passed from ordering 
systems to provisioning and billing systems, and positioned for creating customer invoices.  
XBRL enables the billing system to feed information directly to company reporting systems 
via the XBRL general ledger standards-based platform.  That platform provides predefined 
data tags for elements of financial transactions, enabling the company to represent, for 
example, all parties to a transaction, all resources that are part of the transaction (such as 
supplies, inventory, and other resources), and all related events (such as when the transaction 
was created, sent, received, and entered into the system).  This audit trail allows managers and 
auditors to quickly verify information at any consolidation level −  in an installation, in an 
operating unit, or at the entity level.  The process reduces the cost of compliance by providing 
a more efficient platform for communication with regulators, creditors, and other third parties.  
And, systems changes on either side of the XBRL integration point can proceed with less 
disruption to the information transfer cycle because the new system can readily understand 
and use the XBRL-enriched information.  
•  Another company uses XBRL technology to obtain more complete information on exposures 
in its accounts receivable.  Previously, business units reported receivables from individual 
customers exceeding a monetary threshold, but the composite reports did not include 
exposures slightly under the threshold.  With XBRL, the company’s reports include all 
exposures to a particular customer, enabling quicker and more relevant management action.  
 
Some organizations, rather than using open architectures, develop customized systems 
encompassing data warehouses, which generate key metrics and measures to support 
enterprise risk management.  
Integration with Operations  
Many organizations have highly complex information technology infrastructures developed 
over time to support operations, reporting, and compliance objectives.  In many instances the 
information generated by these systems in the regular course of business is integral to the 
enterprise risk management process. 
 
Exhibit 8.7 illustrates how information used in enterprise risk management is an inherent part 
of and integrated with business processes –  in this instance, the sales process (items listed 
under the component headings include only examples of relevant information).  
 Information and Communic ation 
74 
Exhibit 8.7  
Information Flows Across a Sales Process 
 
Information and Communication – Information provided to individuals in a format and timeframe to allow them to carry out responsibilities (e.g. payment defaults 
available to client service representatives; orders provided to plant supervisors to align staffing levels)
• Internal and external 
factors
• Event identification 
techniques (e.g.  
escalation triggers on 
sales volume 
measures, changing 
purchasing patterns)
• Event 
interdependencies
Orders
Buy 
inventory Mfg Product Ship Product Bill Collect
• Purchasing patterns
• Forecasts
• Sales targets
• Customer relationship 
management (CRM)
objectives
• Manage and process 
collections
• Non-payments
• Outstanding 
receivables
• Over-due accounts
Business Process
Operational Data
Enterprise Risk Management Components
• Production rates
• Quality/defect rates
• Process procedures 
and efficiencies
• Health and safety
• Production control and 
management
• Compliance with 
regulations
Objective Setting Risk Assessment Risk Response Control ActivitiesEvent IdentificationInternal Environment
Monitoring – Ongoing monitoring and separate evaluations
• Strategic (e.g. 
customer growth), 
operational (e.g. 
customer retention), 
reporting (e.g. sales 
targets in the 
MD&A), compliance 
(e.g. predatory 
practices) objectives
• Risk tolerances 
• Estimate risk 
likelihood and impact 
(e.g. credit 
worthiness)
• Risk 
interdependencies 
(e.g. declining 
purchasing patterns 
linked to product 
defects)
• Risk appetite (e.g. 
target customers)
• Integrity and ethical 
values (e.g. code of 
conduct and statements 
around customer gifts) 
• Process customer 
credit
• Process accounts 
receivable
• Materials handling 
• Order processing 
and scheduling
• Complaints/ 
warranties/claims/ 
returns
• Measure customer 
satisfaction
• Select suppliers
• Order materials
• Warehousing 
• Inventory control 
• Material costs
• Inventory levels
• Manage pricing
• Selected risk 
response (e.g.  
marketing campaigns 
to support sales 
growth targets )
• Cost/benefits of 
responses
• Portfolio view
• Residual risks 
aligned to tolerances
• Policies and 
procedures (e.g. over 
sales practices)
• General computer 
controls
• Application controls
Information and Communication – Information provided to individuals in a format and timeframe to allow them to carry out responsibilities (e.g. payment defaults 
available to client service representatives; orders provided to plant supervisors to align staffing levels)
• Internal and external 
factors
• Event identification 
techniques (e.g.  
escalation triggers on 
sales volume 
measures, changing 
purchasing patterns)
• Event 
interdependencies
Orders
Buy 
inventory Mfg Product Ship Product Bill Collect
• Purchasing patterns
• Forecasts
• Sales targets
• Customer relationship 
management (CRM)
objectives
• Manage and process 
collections
• Non-payments
• Outstanding 
receivables
• Over-due accounts
Business Process
Operational Data
Enterprise Risk Management Components
• Production rates
• Quality/defect rates
• Process procedures 
and efficiencies
• Health and safety
• Production control and 
management
• Compliance with 
regulations
Objective Setting Risk Assessment Risk Response Control ActivitiesEvent IdentificationInternal Environment
Monitoring – Ongoing monitoring and separate evaluations
• Strategic (e.g. 
customer growth), 
operational (e.g. 
customer retention), 
reporting (e.g. sales 
targets in the 
MD&A), compliance 
(e.g. predatory 
practices) objectives
• Risk tolerances 
• Estimate risk 
likelihood and impact 
(e.g. credit 
worthiness)
• Risk 
interdependencies 
(e.g. declining 
purchasing patterns 
linked to product 
defects)
• Risk appetite (e.g. 
target customers)
• Integrity and ethical 
values (e.g. code of 
conduct and statements 
around customer gifts) 
• Process customer 
credit
• Process accounts 
receivable
• Materials handling 
• Order processing 
and scheduling
• Complaints/ 
warranties/claims/ 
returns
• Measure customer 
satisfaction
• Select suppliers
• Order materials
• Warehousing 
• Inventory control 
• Material costs
• Inventory levels
• Manage pricing
• Selected risk 
response (e.g.  
marketing campaigns 
to support sales 
growth targets )
• Cost/benefits of 
responses
• Portfolio view
• Residual risks 
aligned to tolerances
• Policies and 
procedures (e.g. over 
sales practices)
• General computer 
controls
• Application controlsInformation and Communication  
75 
Depth and Timeliness of Information  
Advances in data collection, processing, and storage have resulted in exponential growth in 
data volume.  With more data available - often in real time - to more people in an 
organization, the challenge is to avoid “information overload” by ensuring flow of the right 
information, in the right form, at the right level of detail, to the right people, at the right time.   
Exhibit 8.8 illustrates information needs that management may consider when planning and 
implementing technological infrastructures.   
 
Exhibit 8.8 
Considerations in Determining Information Requirements 
 
•  What are the key performance indicators for the business? 
•  What key risk indicators provide a top-down perspective of potential risks? 
•  What performance metrics are required for monitoring? 
•  What data are required for the performance metrics? 
•  What level of granularity of information is needed? 
•  How frequently does the information need to be collected? 
•  What level of accuracy or rigor is needed?  
•  What are the criteria for data collection? 
•  Where and how should data be obtained (e.g., from business units or operating areas, 
electronically or manually)? 
•  What data/information are present from existing processes? 
•  How should data repositories be structured? 
•  What data recovery mechanisms are needed? 
 
Many organizations have established a structured approach to information management. Such 
approaches enable management to identify the value and rank the importance of information, 
and develop effective processes and appropriate tools and methods to reliably collect, store, 
and distribute data.  Exhibit 8.9 illustrates elements of an information management program 
used by a large retail bank to support management of market risk exposures. 
 Information and Communic ation 
76 
Exhibit 8.9 
Managing Market Risk Exposures 
 
The Market Risk Function of a large retail bank tracks the organization’s actual and potential 
exposures to movements in interest rates each day.  In identifying the information needed to 
perform risk assessments, and ensure the bank remains within its risk tolerances, management 
views information in the context of the following elements: 
Primary  
•  Source and Capture –  defines how 
information is to be produced or acquired, 
from internal or external sources.  Rules for 
modifying or transforming data, methods of 
extraction, and selection criteria are 
addressed at this level.  For the Market Risk 
Function, data are sourced from multiple 
internal systems, including back office trade 
processing systems and market risk limit 
systems, and from external sources, 
including rates from a market data provider. 
Data are captured by automated interfaces 
from each of the sources. 
•  Process and Analyze –  defines how information is maintained once it is in production.  
Data integrity, data quality, and data cleansing exercises are performed at this level.  Data 
for the Market Risk Function are processed using market risk models to calculate 
exposure.  Management analyzes resulting information to evaluate the organization’s 
exposure against pre-set tolerances and market risk limits.  
•  Report –  defines how information is distributed to end-users.  Data aggregation criteria, 
authorization considerations, and whether information is distributed in raw form or 
standard or customizable reports, are addressed at this level.  In this instance, systems 
report exceptions in real time to line managers and summarize the daily overall position 
to senior management. 
Secondary  
•  Governance  –  defines the policy, organizational structure, and mandate supporting the 
primary characteristics. 
•  Policies  –  define the general principles, standards, and framework. 
•  Process es  –  define the procedures and standards employed to support the primary 
characteristics.   
•  Technology  –  defines the architecture, applications, databases, security, and controls that 
support the primary characteristics.   
 
Information and Communication  
77 
Having the right information, on time and at the right place, is essential to effecting 
enterprise risk management.   
Exhibit 8.10 illustrates information sources and flows in a common reporting process.  Each 
of the four zones captures information used in the management process, including risk 
management.  When these disparate systems, such as operational systems (Zone 1), financial 
reporting systems (Zone 2), performance management systems (Zone 3), and formal and 
informal data management systems (Zone 4), are integrated, management is able to obtain 
enhanced risk management reporting on a real-time basis. 
 
Exhibit 8.10 
Overview of Data Flows Within a Reporting Process 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
“Dashboard” -style reports are used by organizations to present information necessary for 
enterprise risk management.  These dashboard reports enable management to quickly 
determine the extent to which the entity’s risk profile is aligned with risk tolerances. Where 
misalignment occurs, which suggests existing risk responses or controls are not performing as 
expected, management can take corrective action.  These dashboard reports are generated 
from information obtained from any or all of the four zones depicted in Exhibit 8.10 and from 
information external to the company.   
 
A risk profile dashboard used by a large bank is illustrated in Exhibit 8.11, which allows 
management to view risk relative to both the entity as a whole and individual business units.  
Zone 1
• Application Systems 
• Transactions
• Capture - Maintain -
Distribute
Zone 2
• General Ledger 
• Automated Accounts
• Manual Adjustment 
Accounts
Financial 
Statement 
Reporting
Zone 3
• Incident Management 
Systems, e.g., Fraud 
Loss Data
Zone 4
• Management Info Systems
• Data Warehouse / Models
• Excel / Access
Risk Management  Reporting, e.g. Leading Risk Indicators, 
Escalation Triggers
Rules, Standards and Protocols
Zone 1
• Application Systems 
• Transactions
• Capture - Maintain -
Distribute
Zone 2
• General Ledger 
• Automated Accounts
• Manual Adjustment 
Accounts
Financial 
Statement 
Reporting
Zone 3
• Incident Management 
Systems, e.g., Fraud 
Loss Data
Zone 4
• Management Info Systems
• Data Warehouse / Models
• Excel / Access
Risk Management  Reporting, e.g. Leading Risk Indicators, 
Escalation Triggers
Rules, Standards and ProtocolsInformation and Communic ation 
78 
Exhibit 8.11 
Dashboard Reporting 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The arrows provide two pieces of information:  
•  Arrow direction indicates quarter-to-quarter trend in expected loss from the underlying risks, 
with a down arrow indicating a decline in expected loss trend, and an up arrow an increase.  
•  Arrow color indicates residual risk in relation to tolerances, where green indicates expected 
loss safely within risk tolerance, yellow indicates expected loss near or at risk tolerance, and 
red indicates risk tolerance is exceeded. 
 
Looking at the Capital Markets business unit, for example, the up arrow shows a quarter-to-quarter 
increase in expected loss, and the color green indicates that the unit’s expected loss remains safely 
within the established risk tolerance.  
 
Many of these dashboard reporting systems allow users to “drill down” to examine the 
underlying data.  For example, Exhibit 8.12 illustrates how the same bank shows the details 
behind the operational risk arrow in Exhibit 8.11.  
 
Credit
Risk
Market
Risk
Liquidity
Risk
Operational 
Risk GrowthCost 
Efficiency
Budget
PerformanceQuality
Key Value 
Drivers
Key Risk 
Categories
Retail E-Bus. Corporate InternationalWorkout Trust National 
Housing
Financial
Planning
Business Units
Company Wide
Credit 
Card
Capital 
Markets
Credit
Risk
Market
Risk
Liquidity
Risk
Operational 
Risk GrowthCost 
Efficiency
Budget
PerformanceQuality
Key Value 
Drivers
Key Risk 
Categories
Retail E-Bus. Corporate InternationalWorkout Trust National 
Housing
Financial
Planning
Business Units
Company Wide
Credit 
Card
Capital 
MarketsInformation and Communication  
79 
Exhibit 8.12 
Drilldown to Operational Risk 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The data depicted in the charts at the right feed the first two entries in the color-coded graphic at the 
left, and the data from that graphic in turn feed the entity-level measure in the dashboard in Exhibit 
8.11 –  in this illustration, supporting the measure for operational risk.  The bank established that if 
none of the business unit measures are coded red (that is, none exceed risk tolerance), then the entity-
level measure will be coded green; if one business unit measure is red, the entity-level measure will be 
coded yellow; and if two or more are red, the entity-level measure will be coded red.  While the color 
scheme at the entity level does not provide precise information, it allows management to quickly focus 
on those risks not within its tolerances and to drill down for more precise information and to identify 
areas where action may be required.   
 
Communication   
Management provides specific and directed communication that addresses behavioral 
expectations and the responsibilities of personnel.  This includes a clear statement of the 
entity’s risk management philosophy and approach and a clear delegation of authority.  
Communication about processes and procedures should align with, and underpin, the desired 
culture. 
Communications are key to creating the “right” internal environment and to supporting the 
other components of enterprise risk management.  For example, embedding the risk 
management philosophy into an organization’s culture is facilitated by top-down 
communications on what the philosophy is and what is expected of the organization’s people, 
and supported by bottom-up information flows.  Similarly, management reinforces or changes 
an organization’s cultures with words and everyday actions.  One company adopted an 
internal communications program, as illustrated in Exhibit 8.13, specifically to support the 
Internal Fraud
External Fraud
Employment practices
Clients, products, & Business 
Practices
Damage to Physical Assets
Business Disruption
Execution, Delivery & Process 
Mgmt
Internal and External Fraud Costs
0
200
400
600
800
Jan Mar May July Sept Nov
External Fraud Cost
Internal Fraud Cost
Internal and External Fraud Incidents
0
1
2
3
4
Jan Mar May July Sept Nov
Internal Fraud
Incidents
External Fraud
Incidents
Internal Fraud
External Fraud
Employment practices
Clients, products, & Business 
Practices
Damage to Physical Assets
Business Disruption
Execution, Delivery & Process 
Mgmt
Internal Fraud
External Fraud
Employment practices
Clients, products, & Business 
Practices
Damage to Physical Assets
Business Disruption
Execution, Delivery & Process 
Mgmt
Internal and External Fraud Costs
0
200
400
600
800
Jan Mar May July Sept Nov
External Fraud Cost
Internal Fraud Cost
Internal and External Fraud Incidents
0
1
2
3
4
Jan Mar May July Sept Nov
Internal Fraud
Incidents
External Fraud
IncidentsInformation and Communic ation 
80 
integration of its risk management philosophy and to help reinforce an ethical internal 
environment. 
 
Exhibit 8.13 
Communicating Risk Management Philosophy 
 
•  Management discusses risks and associated risk responses in regular briefings with 
employees. 
•  Management regularly communicates entity-wide risks in employee communications.  
•  Enterprise risk management policies, standards, and procedures are made readily available to 
employees along with clear statements requiring compliance. 
•  Management requires employees to consult with others across the organization as appropriate 
when new events are identified. 
•  New hire orientation sessions include information and literature on the company’s risk 
management philosophy and enterprise risk management program. 
•  Tenured employees are required to take workshops and/or refresher courses on the 
organization’s enterprise risk management initiatives. 
•  The risk management philosophy is reinforced in regular and ongoing internal communication 
programs and through specific communication programs to reinforce tenets of the company’s 
culture.  
 
Exhibit 8.14 is an example of a letter from the CEO of one company to employees, 
emphasizing the importance of enterprise risk management. 
 
Exhibit 8.14 
Message from CEO 
  
Our overall objective is to maximize shareholder value. 
To achieve this goal we must have superior risk management capabilities, which address the full 
spectrum of risks facing our businesses.  A structured and disciplined approach to risk management 
will ensure that our strategic efforts are not diminished through avoidable loss, or hampered by change 
and uncertainty.  Additionally, we must harness our ability to cope with emerging risks and 
opportunities in an increasingly competitive environment. 
Everyone has a role to play in our enterprise risk management.  This entails understanding the risks 
and opportunities facing our business, assessing exposure, and taking action to effectively respond to 
preserve and maximize value.  
We have developed a framework document as a tool to guide our efforts to manage the risks, 
uncertainties, and opportunities of our businesses to support the achievement of organizational 
objectives and maximize shareholder value. 
We look to all our employees to participate in applying this framework on a daily basis to help ensure 
we fulfill our objectives. 
 
 Information and Communication  
81 
In addition to “top-down” information flows, communications channels should enable 
personnel to communicate risk-based information across business units, processes, or 
functional silos.  Exhibit 8.15 includes examples of vehicles managements use to 
communicate such information. 
 
Exhibit 8.15 
Communications Vehicles 
 
•  Broadcast e-mails 
•  Broadcast voice mails  
•  Corporate newsletters  
•  Databases supporting specific risk issues  
•  Letters from the CEO  
•  E-mail discussion groups 
•  Intranet sites capturing information regarding enterprise risk management for easy access by 
personnel 
•  Messages integrated into ongoing corporate communications  
•  Organization, function, or location-wide webcasts or conference calls  
•  Posters or signs reinforcing key aspects of enterprise risk management   
•  Regular face-to-face meetings of “risk champions” or other employees from a range of 
functions and business units with responsibility for aspects of enterprise risk management 
•  Regular risk management conference calls among a network of risk champions and other 
employees  
•  Regularly issued newsletters from the chief risk officer and associated staff 
•  “Town-hall” meetings 
 
A desirable goal is, over time, to embed communications on enterprise risk management into 
an entity’s broad-based, ongoing communications programs, consistent with the concept of 
building enterprise risk management into the fabric of the organization.  
 
Many organizations use technology to facilitate ongoing communication for enterprise risk 
management.  Technology, such as an intranet site, can put enterprise risk management 
information within easy and constant access of all staff.  Exhibit 8.16 illustrates information 
typically provided and made readily available. Information and Communic ation 
82 
Exhibit 8.16 
Intranet Site Information on Enterprise Risk Management 
 
•  “Ask anything” links 
•  CEO’s message stating the entity’s risk management philosophy, risk appetite, and basic 
objectives of its enterprise risk management approach  
•  Discussion forum 
•  Enterprise risk management policies and procedures 
•  Frequently asked questions regarding the organization’s enterprise risk management program  
•  Relevant enterprise risk management reports and reporting activities 
•  Readily accessible information on and links to corporate whistle-blower channels or hotlines 
•  Links to other organizations’ websites providing information on risk management within key 
functions and processes, such as human resources policies, procurement, travel, vendor 
relations, etc.  
•  List of responsibilities and contact information for chief risk officer and key staff supporting 
the enterprise risk management program  
 
In some circumstances . . . separate lines of communication are needed to serve as a fail-safe 
mechanism in case normal channels are inoperative.  
In the event regular communications channels are not effective or appropriate, many 
organizations have set up supplemental employee communications channels.  These channels, 
which may be called “whistle-blower” programs or “ethics hotlines,” may be voluntary or 
legally mandated.  Their purpose is to provide a ready means whereby employees at any 
organizational level can confidentially discuss or report perceived or actual illegal, unethical, 
or otherwise inappropriate behavior.  
 
Exhibit 8.17 provides questions that might be considered when establishing an ethics hotline. 
 
Exhibit 8.17 
Considerations for Ethics Hotlines 
 
•  Are reporting mechanisms and protocols such that personnel will feel comfortable using the 
channel?  
•  What procedures will be used to ensure personnel trust the communications channel, with no 
concern about potential reprisal? 
•  Will the system be managed internally or by an external third party?   
•  How will incidents be prioritized? 
•  How will appropriate follow-up resources be identified? 
•  What is target response time? 
•  What are documentation standards? 
•  What monitoring processes should be in place? Information and Communication  
83 
•  Are technology and security resources sufficient to manage the system? 
•  Who will perform any necessary investigations?  
•  How will complaints be documented and tracked? 
•  How will the employee reporting the information be advised of conclusions and actions taken? 
•  What kinds of summary reports are needed, and with what frequency? 
•  What mechanisms will be in place to ensure needed broad-based corrective and future 
preventive actions are taken? 
 
Exhibit 8.18 provides an illustrative work flow diagram for a supplemental reporting process. 
  Information and Communication  
84 
Exhibit 8.18 
Alternative Reporting Process   
 
 Incident Reporting Workflow (Basic)
Publicize how to
report an incident
without fear of
retaliation
Initial
complaint
received
No
YesPhone
In-
person
Letter
Email Anonymous?
Get applicable
caller
information
Get preliminary
incident
information
What?
Who?
Where?
Why?
When?
Identify incident
category
Public/
unrelated
inquiry
(misdirected)
Informational
Request
Legal/
Regulatory
Integrity/
Conduct
Log details in
template sheet or
in database/ web-
site
Assign Incident #
(especially
important if made
anonymously)
Date
Received
Date
Escalated;
if applicable
Assign
"Urgency
Rating"Medium
High
Low
Begin investigation of
incident or forward to
appropriate people to pursue
(e.g. Legal and/
or HR)
Protect
complainant
from
retaliation
Establish expected
response time
Send preliminary
note to
complainant
Investigating
complaint
Provide
re-contact
date
Request additional
information, as
necessary from
applicable parties,
including complainant
if appropriate
Gather documents and
findings.  Discuss plans of
action or closure with
appropriate parties. (Legal
Dept. may/ not be involved).
Draft final response (initial
response to query, but dialogue
may continue)
Send response/
resolution to
complainant
Complainant not
privy to specific
disciplinary
actions taken
Maintain records in
secure environment,
pursuant to applicable
document retention
requirements
Misconduct  or
business ethics
complaints made by
employees kept
separate from
personnel files
'Roll-up' relevant data
to corporate headquarters for
tracking/ resolution/ trend
analysis & resultant actions, as
required
Training
Program
Development
Disciplinary
Revise training
materials & delivery
as appropriate.  Keep
ongoing records of
training; with signed
employee
acknowledgments
What?
Where?
When?
Related Requirements:
1 - Code of Conduct and/ or policies & procedures exist & were communicated  to
employees through training, publications, etc.
2 - Compliance network & people exist & are trained to handle inquiries.
3 - A hotline and other means of reporting incidents exist.
4 - A secure environment exists to maintain confidential files.
Monitoring
Private & Confidential Draft for Internal use OnlyMonitoring  
85 
9. MONITORING 
Framework Chapter Summary:  Enterprise risk management is monitored –  assessing the 
presence and functioning of its components over time.  This is accomplished through ongoing 
monitoring activities, separate evaluations, or a combination of the two.  Ongoing monitoring 
occurs in the normal course of management activities.  The scope and frequency of separate 
evaluations will depend primarily on an assessment of risks and the effectiveness of ongoing 
monitoring procedures.  Enterprise risk management deficiencies are reported upstream, with 
serious matters reported to top management and the board.   
 
This chapter illustrates some the techniques used in ongoing monitoring and separate 
evaluations, and provides an overview of methodology, tools, documentation, and 
considerations for reporting deficiencies.  In addition to the techniques illustrated here, 
readers are referred to the evaluation tools provided in Internal Control –  Integrated 
Framework, which may serve as a useful reference for separate evaluations of enterprise risk 
management.   
 
Ongoing Monitoring Activities 
Many different activities performed in the ordinary course of running a business serve to 
monitor the effectiveness of enterprise risk management components.  These include day-to-
day review of information in carrying out normal business activities, as illustrated in Exhibit 
9.1. 
 
Illustration 9.1 
Examples of Ongoing Monitoring Activities 
 
•  Management reviews reports of key business activity indicators such as flash reports of new 
sales or cash position, and information on backlog, gross margins, and other key financial and 
operational statistics. 
•  Operating management compares production, inventory, quality measures, sales, and other 
information obtained in the course of daily activities to systems-generated information and to 
budget or plan. 
•  Management reviews performance against limits established for risk exposures, such as 
acceptable error rates, items in suspense, reconciling items, foreign currency exposure 
balances, or exposure to counterparties. 
•  Management reviews transactions reported through escalation triggers. 
•  Management reviews key performance indicators such as trends in direction and magnitude of 
risks, status of strategic and tactical initiatives, trends or variances in actual results to budget 
or prior periods, and event triggers, as described in the Event Identification chapter. 
 Monitoring  
86 
Separate Evaluations 
While ongoing monitoring procedures usually provide important feedback on the effectiveness 
of other enterprise risk management components, it may be useful to take a fresh look from 
time to time, focusing directly on enterprise risk management effectiveness.  
Separate evaluations of enterprise risk management typically are conducted periodically.  In 
some cases, they are prompted by change in strategy, key processes, or entity structure. 
Separate evaluations are conducted by management, the internal audit function, external 
specialists, or a combination thereof.    
 
Separate evaluations sometimes are broad-based, with scope including the entirety of the 
entity and all enterprise risk management components.  In some cases, the evaluation is 
limited to a specific business unit, process, or department, with other areas of the business 
addressed over time.  Exhibit 9.2 describes how a manufacturer designed an evaluation of its 
new inventory control system. 
 
Exhibit 9.2 
Separate Monitoring of a New Process 
   
Management of a large manufacturing company installed new modules for its enterprise resource 
planning system, to enhance its global supply chain processes.  Objectives included reducing 
inventory costs, improving tracking capabilities, and providing better information on inventory 
availability.  Given the critical importance of the system to achieving customer service goals, and the 
scale of the changes to the processes, it was decided that a separate evaluation of the process would be 
conducted on a monthly basis for four months following the “go-live” date, and every six months 
thereafter for two years.  
 
The evaluations were conducted by a team comprising individuals from the information technology 
function, the internal audit function, and outside consultants.  The first evaluation focused on: 
 
•  System change controls 
•  Organizational change readiness 
•  Security 
•  Data quality 
•  Interfaces with legacy systems 
 
Subsequent evaluations addressed accuracy and completeness of processing, including transfers and 
handoffs, related control activities, changes to and control over access, manual interfaces, and use and 
usefulness of information outputs.   Monitoring  
87 
Internal Audit Reviews 
Internal audit functions typically provide an assessment of risks and control activities of a 
business unit, process, or department.  These assessments provide an objective perspective on 
any or all elements of enterprise risk management, from the company’s internal environment 
through monitoring.  In some cases particular attention is given to risk identification, analysis 
of likelihood and impact, risk response, control activities, and information and 
communication.  Internal audit, based on its knowledge of the business, may be positioned to 
consider how new company initiatives and circumstances might affect application of 
enterprise risk management, and to take that into account in its review and testing of relevant 
information.  Further information is available in The Institute of Internal Auditors’ Practice 
Advisories, which set out guidance for evaluating and reporting on risk management 
effectiveness.   
The Evaluation Process 
Evaluating enterprise risk management is a process in itself.  While approaches or techniques 
vary, a discipline should be brought to the process, with certain basics inherent in it. 
A disciplined process provides a sound basis for an evaluation.  Any of a number of 
approaches and techniques are used, generally depending on the circumstances of the 
company and nature and scope of the evaluation to be performed.  Exhibit 9.3 illustrates one 
company’s basic approach. 
 
Exhibit 9.3 
Steps in a Separate Evaluation 
 
Planning 
 
•  Define the objectives and scope of the evaluation 
•  Identify an executive with requisite authority to manage the evaluation 
•  Identify the evaluation team, support personnel, and key business unit contacts 
•  Define the evaluation methodology, timeline, and steps to be conducted 
•  Agree on evaluation plan  
 
Performance 
 
•  Gain an understanding of the business unit’s/process’s activities 
•  Understand how the unit’s/process’s risk management process is designed to work  
•  Apply the agreed-on methods to evaluate the risk management process 
•  Analyze results by comparison to the Company’s internal audit standards and follow up as 
necessary 
•  Document deficiencies and proposed remediation, if applicable  
•  Review and validate findings with appropriate personnel Monitoring  
88 
 
Reporting and Corrective Actions  
 
•  Review results with business unit/process and other management as appropriate 
•  Obtain comments and remediation plans from unit/business process management 
•  Incorporate management feedback into final evaluation report 
Methodology 
A variety of evaluation methodologies and tools are available, including checklists, 
questionnaires, and flowcharting techniques. 
Evaluators identify methodologies and tools needed to support the evaluation process.  A 
number of structured methodologies and tools exist that are used to document and assess 
specific aspects of enterprise risk management.  Factors in selecting evaluation methodologies 
and tools include whether they can be readily used by assigned staff, are relevant to the given 
scope, and are appropriate to the nature and expected frequency of the evaluation.  For 
example, where the scope involves understanding and documenting differences between 
business process design and actual performance, the evaluation team might review or develop 
process flowcharts and control matrices, whereas a scope limited to addressing whether 
specific mandated control activities are present might suggest using a pre-established 
questionnaire.  Exhibit 9.4 lists tools used, either individually or in conjunction with one 
another. 
 
Exhibit 9.4 
Methodologies and Tools 
  
•  Process flowcharting 
•  Risk and control matrices 
•  Risk and control reference manuals 
•  Benchmarking using internal, industry, or peer information 
•  Computer assisted audit techniques  
•  Risk and control self-assessment workshops 
•  Questionnaires  
•  Facilitated sessions  
 
Exhibit 9.5 contains an excerpt of a risk and control self-assessment questionnaire for a 
payroll process, serving as a diagnostic reference point focusing on the extent to which 
controls related to payroll processing risks actually are being applied.  The results form a 
basis for needed corrective action. 
 Monitoring  
89 
Exhibit 9.5 
Risk and Control Self-Assessment Questionnaire Excerpts 
 
Payroll Questions Questionnaire Response Options  Policy 
Reference  
1. My department 
reviews the budget 
summaries prepared 
by the Budgeting 
Department 
Yes No Don’t 
know N/A N/A Payroll 
policy #1 
2. My department 
monitors the number 
of employees paid 
from your budget 
Yes No Don’t 
know N/A N/A Payroll 
policy #2 
3. My department 
reviews the monthly 
report of salaries and 
wages posted to our 
department 
Never  Seldom Usually Always N/A Payroll 
policy #3 
4. When reviewing this 
payroll report, what 
would you consider to 
be an exceedingly high 
number of overtime 
payroll hours per 
person that you would 
review in detail to 
determine the 
underlying cause? 
10– 20 20– 30 30– 40 > 40 Don’t 
know 
No payroll 
policy 
Summary of Findings 
1. 95% of respondents review budget summaries prepared by the Budgeting Department 
2. 93% review the number of people paid from their budget 
3. 70% always review payroll reports; 18% usually do, and 12% seldom review these reports   
4. See graph at right 
10 - 20
20 - 30
30 - 40
> 40
Don’t
KnowMonitoring  
90 
Documentation 
The extent of documentation of an entity’s enterprise risk management varies with the entity’s 
size, complexity, and similar factors. 
The desired level of enterprise risk management documentation varies by company, often 
based on size, complexity, and management style.  In addition to scale and depth of 
documentation, considerations include whether it will be paper- or electronic-based, 
centralized or distributed, and means of access for update and review.     
 
In evaluating enterprise risk management, existing documentation of processes and other 
activities are reviewed, or may be created, to allow the evaluation team to readily understand 
the unit, process, or department’s risks and responses.  Documentation considered in an 
evaluation may include: 
 
•  Organization charts 
•  Description of key roles, authorities, and responsibilities 
•  Policy manuals 
•  Operating procedures 
•  Process flowcharts 
•  Relevant controls and associated responsibilities 
•  Key performance indicators  
•  Key identified risks 
•  Key risk measures 
 
Such documentation may form the basis for developing review processes that include tests to 
determine whether the processes and related policies and procedures represented to have been 
established are both appropriate to address the entity’s risks and being followed.  
 
With regard to what documentation of the evaluation process itself is to be developed, the 
evaluation team might consider the extent to which documentation is expected to achieve the 
objectives of: 
 
•  Providing an “audit trail” of the evaluation team’s assessments and testing 
•  Communicating the results of the evaluation –  findings, conclusions, and 
recommendations 
•  Facilitating review by supervisory personnel 
•  Facilitating evaluations in subsequent periods 
•  Identifying and reporting broader issues 
•  Identifying individual roles and responsibilities in the evaluation process 
•  Supplementing existing enterprise risk management documentation that may be 
deficient Monitoring  
91 
Reporting Deficiencies 
All identified enterprise risk management deficiencies that affect an entity’s ability to develop 
and implement its strategy and to set and achieve its objectives should be reported to those 
positioned to take necessary action.   
Some companies have developed guidelines regarding to whom deficiencies are to be 
reported, as illustrated in Exhibit 9.6.   
 
Exhibit 9.6 
Illustrative Deficiency Reporting Guidelines 
 
•  Deficiencies are reported to persons directly responsible for achieving business objectives 
affected by the deficiency  
•  Deficiencies are reported to the person directly responsible for the activity and a person at 
least one level higher 
•  Alternative reporting channels exist for reporting sensitive information such as illegal or 
improper acts 
•  Specified types of deficiencies are reported to more senior management  
•  Protocols are established for what is reported to the board of directors or a specified board 
committee 
•  Information on corrective actions taken or to be taken is communicated back to relevant 
personnel involved in the reporting process 
 
 
Another company established criteria for deciding which deficiencies are to be reported to 
senior management (and depending on significance, to the board of directors), as illustrated in 
Exhibit 9.7.    
 
Exhibit 9.7 
Illustrative Criteria for Reporting to Senior Management 
 
Deficiencies will be reported where the likelihood of an event occurring is not insignificant, and the 
impact is such that there could be a resulting: 
 
•  Adverse impact on safety of staff or others 
•  Illegal or improper act 
•  Significant loss of assets 
•  Failure to achieve key objectives  
•  Negative effect on the entity’s reputation 
•  Improper external reporting 
 Roles and Responsibilities  
93 
10. ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
Framework Chapter Summary:  Everyone in an entity has some responsibility for enterprise 
risk management.  The chief executive officer is ultimately responsible and should assume 
“ownership.”  Other managers support the risk management philosophy, promote compliance 
with the risk appetite, and manage risks within their spheres of responsibility consistent with 
risk tolerances.  Other personnel are responsible for executing enterprise risk management in 
accordance with established directives and protocols.  The board of directors provides 
important oversight to enterprise risk management.  A number of external parties often 
provide information useful in effecting enterprise risk management, but they are not 
responsible for the effectiveness of the entity’s enterprise risk management. 
 
This chapter illustrates organizational approaches for assigning roles and responsibilities for 
enterprise risk management, and provides guidance on the roles and responsibilities of the 
board of directors, chief executive officer, chief risk officer, business unit management, and 
internal audit, as well as relevant board and management committees. 
 
A defining characteristic of how enterprise risk management is implemented is the extent to 
which roles and responsibilities are clearly defined, and whether they are assigned on a 
centralized or decentralized basis.  While how this is done varies widely by entity, 
commonalities can be observed.  Exhibit 10.1 depicts three approaches, each with a different 
degree to which roles and responsibilities are or are not centralized for identifying, assessing, 
responding to, and reporting on risks. 
 Roles and Responsibilities  
94 
Exhibit 10.1 
Organizational Approaches   
 
 
Approach 1 depicts a model where event identification and risk assessment occur in the 
business lines or departmental management, but authority to determine risk response and 
related control activities rests with the center, and the center also reports risks upstream.  This 
approach may work for smaller entities where central management has clear sight lines into 
the business activities, and key decision authorities remain with the center.  Approach 2 
depicts a model where event identification, risk assessment, risk response, control activities, 
and reporting are primarily the responsibility of the business lines.  The center is involved in 
monitoring the process and might have a broad-based role in reporting as well.  Approach 3 is 
a variation on Approach 2, illustrating that certain risks may be addressed at the center, such 
as entity-wide risks of commodity or foreign currency price movements that are tracked and 
managed at the entity level.  Each of these approaches has benefits and challenges, described 
in Exhibit 10.2. 
 
 
Approach 2 Approach 1 
 
Approach 3 
Senior Management  Senior Management  
Identify , Assess, RespondIdentify , Assess Respond 
Board Board 
Central 
Function(s) 
Central 
Function(s) 
Central 
Function(s) 
Senior Management
Board Roles and Responsibilities  
95 
Exhibit 10.2 
Benefits and Challenges of Organizational Approaches 
 
Approach 
1 2 3 
Benefits  
•  Effective event  
identification and risk 
assessment by those 
closest to emerging issues 
•  Risk responses 
determined by higher- 
level managers 
 
•  Ownership of risk 
response and control 
activities by managers 
closest to emerging issues 
•  Ability to generate more 
complete management 
information 
•  Enhanced ability to 
manage risk-based 
activities 
•  More significant risks 
addressed by higher-level 
managers 
•  Facilitates managing risks 
on entity-wide basis  
 
Challenges  
•  Might be disconnect 
between risk assessment 
and response 
•  Lack of ownership by risk 
takers in risk response 
•  Potential for less- 
consistent risk 
management (but this 
potentiality is reduced by 
an effective central 
support/monitoring 
function) 
•  Requires effective 
communication and 
coordination with 
business units 
 
Many companies find that as they expand in size and complexity, they can most effectively 
apply enterprise risk management principles and disciplines by pushing much, if not all, 
responsibility to the lines of business and functional support units.  At the same time, a small 
central supporting infrastructure deals with more pervasive, entity-wide risks.  
 
Board of Directors 
The board provides oversight with regard to enterprise risk management. 
The board has a key role in the oversight of enterprise risk management.  The board should be 
apprised on a timely basis of the most significant risks, management’s assessment, and its 
planned response.  Importantly, the board should feel comfortable that appropriate processes 
are in place and that management is positioned to identify, assess, and respond to risk, and to 
bring relevant information to the board level.   
 
The types of questions directors ask in performing this oversight role are illustrated in Exhibit 
10.3. Roles and Responsibilities  
96 
 
Exhibit 10.3 
Questions Raised by Boards Regarding Enterprise Risk Management 
 
•  What information about the risks facing the organization do we receive to fulfill our fiduciary 
and advisory governance responsibilities? 
•  When and how does senior management report risk information to us? 
•  How do we know that the information we receive on risks and risk management is accurate 
and complete for our purposes? 
•  Have we effectively communicated our expectations to senior management concerning the 
company’s risk management process, and is there a clear understanding of those expectations, 
including what information we expect to receive? 
•  How do we ensure that the organization is performing according to established risk tolerance 
limits and overall risk appetite? 
•  How do we as a board help establish the right "tone at the top" that reinforces the 
organization’s values and promotes a "risk aware culture"?  
•  Are we effectively carrying out our responsibilities as a board in overseeing risk management? 
 
Boards may choose to delegate responsibilities and accountabilities for specified aspects of 
enterprise risk management to one or more board committees to help ensure a clear focus on 
the risk areas.   
Audit Committee 
It is not uncommon for oversight responsibility for enterprise risk management to be assigned 
to the audit committee.  In many cases it is believed that with its focus on internal control over 
financial reporting, and possibly a broader focus on internal control, the audit committee 
already is well positioned to expand its responsibility to overseeing enterprise risk 
management.  Some observers point to certain regulatory standards as providing support for 
placing responsibility with this committee.  See Exhibit 10.4 for an excerpt from the New 
York Stock Exchange’s rules.   
 Roles and Responsibilities  
97 
Exhibit 10.4  
Audit Committee Role 
 
The New York Stock Exchange’s Corporate Governance Rules require that a listed company’s audit 
committee have a written charter that addresses the committee’s duties and responsibilities, which 
must include discussing policies with respect to risk assessment and risk management.  The rules’ 
commentary notes: 
 
While it is the job of the CEO and senior management to assess and manage the company’s exposure 
to risk, the audit committee must discuss guidelines and policies to govern the process by which this is 
handled.  The audit committee should discuss the company’s  major financial risk exposures and the 
steps management has taken to monitor and control such exposures.   The audit committee is not 
required to be the sole body responsible for risk assessment and management, but, as stated above, the 
committee must discuss guidelines and policies to govern the process by which risk assessment and 
management is undertaken.  Many companies, particularly financial companies, manage and assess 
their risk through mechanisms other than the audit committee. The processes these companies have in 
place should be reviewed in a general manner by the audit committee, but they need not be replaced 
by the audit committee.  
Risk Committee 
The New York Stock Exchange rule commentary states that some companies assign board-
level risk management oversight responsibility to other than the audit committee, and some 
organizations indeed have determined that tasking the audit committee with oversight of 
entity-wide risks in non-financial areas (e.g., operational, compliance) exceeds the intended 
authority of the audit committee and its available resources.  Some boards have established a 
risk committee to focus directly on enterprise risk management. A description of one 
company’s board risk committee is provided in Exhibit 10.5.  In this case, senior members of 
management attend the committee’s meetings, and the committee’s responsibilities reflect that 
it works with management in dealing with such matters as developing and refining the 
enterprise-wide risk appetite and risk tolerances.  
 
Exhibit 10.5  
Risk Committee Description 
 
Objectives  
 
The Board of Directors (exercised through the Risk Committee) recognizes its responsibility for 
ensuring that a comprehensive Risk Management system which includes policies, programs, measures 
and competencies for identifying, assessing and managing risk needs to be in place to assist senior 
management in managing growth in a rapidly changing environment. 
 
In this regard, the specific objectives of the Committee include ensuring that: 
•  Management understands and accepts its responsibility for identifying, assessing and 
managing risk 
•  Senior Management and business unit management are strategically focused on the enterprise-
wide risk strategy Roles and Responsibilities  
98 
•  Leading tools and processes are provided to the businesses to facilitate achievement of their 
Risk Management responsibilities 
•  Business unit risk assessments are performed periodically and completely 
•  Business unit risk mitigation activities are successful in: 
 -  safeguarding assets 
 -  maintaining appropriate standards regarding the environment and health and safety 
  issues 
 -  meeting legal and regulatory obligations 
 -  reinforcing the values of the organization by focusing on stakeholder needs 
•  Proper accounting records are being maintained, appropriate accounting policies have been 
adopted and financial information is comprehensive and accurate 
•  Effective risk mitigation/control testing programs are in place and the results evaluated and 
acted upon 
 
Responsibilities  
 
The Risk Committee’s responsibilities include the following: 
•  Oversee development of and participation in an annual enterprise-wide risk strategy analysis 
•  Develop and refine the enterprise-wide appetite/tolerance for risk 
•  Provide direction and oversight to the Chief Risk Officer and the Global Risk Leaders 
•  Evaluate material risk exposures and report to Board 
•  Evaluate enterprise-wide risk exposure report 
•  Evaluate enterprise-wide risk trending report and ensure corporate strategy is responsive to 
issues raised 
•  Oversee the role and responsibilities of the Internal Audit Team 
•  Review semi-annual and annual consolidated accounts 
 
Materiality and Focus 
 
The Committee is charged with ensuring that the competency for identifying, assessing and managing 
risk continues to evolve in relation to the growing risk appetite of the organization.  To that end, it will 
focus primarily on the effectiveness of enterprise risk management. 
 
The Committee should review those risks which may be deemed material through agreement between 
the Committee and the Chief Risk Officer.  Materiality considerations will be based upon both 
immediate financial exposure to the organization’s shareholders and long term material financial 
exposure to the organization’s shareholders. 
 
The goal of the Committee is to encourage broader thinking by management in relation to risks so that 
greater focus is applied to continue to evolve the organization’s competencies along their risk 
management vision. 
 Roles and Responsibilities  
99 
 
Structure and Membership 
 
•  Members of the Committee will be appointed by resolution of the Board 
•  The Committee will comprise four non-executive Board directors, one of whom will be 
appointed to chair the Committee 
 
Meetings  
 
•  Meetings will be held quarterly prior to Board meetings 
•  The General Counsel & Secretary will attend all Committee meetings and will act as 
Committee Secretary.  The Chief Risk Officer and the CFO will also attend all Committee 
meetings 
•  A report of the meeting will be presented to the next Board meeting following each 
Committee meeting 
 
Management 
Management is directly responsible for all activities of an entity, including enterprise risk 
management.   
Chief Executive Officer 
The chief executive's responsibilities include seeing that all components of enterprise risk 
management are in place. 
The chief executive has ultimate ownership responsibility for enterprise risk management.  
The CEO generally fulfills these responsibilities by providing leadership and direction to 
senior managers and by setting broad-based policies reflecting the entity’s risk management 
philosophy and risk appetite. 
 
A number of chief executive officers have identified a senior executive to provide direction, 
under the auspices of the CEO, to the organization on enterprise risk management 
implementation.  Some CEOs have established a committee to provide this direction.  Another 
approach, which is being used by an increasing number of companies, is to establish a chief 
risk officer to provide direction, guidance, and support to and monitoring of line managers in 
effecting enterprise risk management.   
Enterprise Risk Management Executive Committee 
In some large organizations, the CEO has established an enterprise risk management 
committee of senior executives, consisting of a subset of senior management, including 
functional managers such as the chief financial officer, chief audit executive, chief 
information officer, and others.  
 
Functions and responsibilities of the committee include such matters as: Roles and Responsibilities  
100 
•  Overall responsibility for the enterprise risk management process, including the 
processes used to identify, assess, respond to, and report on risk 
•  Defining roles, responsibilities, and accountabilities at the executive and senior 
management level 
•  Providing policies, frameworks, methodologies, and tools to business units for the 
identification, assessment, and management of risks 
•  Reviewing the company’s risk profile 
•  Reviewing performance measures against tolerances and recommending corrective 
action where appropriate 
•  Communicating the risk management process to the CEO and the board  
 
The responsibilities of one enterprise risk management committee are outlined in an excerpt 
from a sample charter, shown in Exhibit 10.6. 
 
Exhibit 10.6  
Enterprise Risk Management Committee Charter 
 
The Enterprise Risk Management Committee determines the corporate objectives, risk appetite and 
aggregate risk tolerance levels.  It oversees the process by which business unit management identifies 
and assesses risks and determines appropriate responses.  It addresses enterprise-wide risks, and sets 
performance measure goals and key risk indicators for those risks.  It is responsible for capital 
allocations, capital planning, and risk capital allocation and overrides.  The committee also reviews 
capital usage and actual risk management performance versus plan. 
 
Chief Risk Officer 
Some companies have established a centralized coordinating point to facilitate enterprise risk 
management.  A risk officer –  referred to in some organizations as the chief risk officer or risk 
manager –  works with other managers in establishing effective risk management in their 
areas of responsibility. 
Companies that have a chief risk officer (CRO) position tend to be larger and more complex 
enterprises.  An alternative to creating this position is to assign this role to a senior officer, 
such as chief financial officer, general counsel, or chief compliance officer.  Some companies 
that initially chose this approach found over time that the breadth and scope of dealing 
effectively with risk require more time and effort than senior officers have available, and have 
moved to establishing a CRO resource.   
 
A model for the CRO that a number of companies have found successful begins with 
establishing clarity around the risk officer’s responsibilities and accountabilities.  While some 
companies assign direct responsibility for effective risk management to the CRO, many others 
have found success by maintaining responsibility for risk management with line and 
functional unit leaders, with the risk officer having important directional, support, and 
monitoring responsibilities.  Experience shows that success also depends on the CRO having Roles and Responsibilities  
101 
the appropriately high stature within the organization, as well as necessary resources.  Some 
companies provide CRO staff within subsidiaries, business units, and departments, to ensure 
CRO staff support is close to the entity’s operating activities.   
 
One company’s CRO job description, which outlines key responsibilities, is illustrated in 
Exhibit 10.7.   
 
Exhibit 10.7 
Chief Risk Officer Job Description 
 
Reports to:      
Chairman –  Risk Committee of the Board, and CEO 
Direct Reports:  
•  Global Risk Leaders, Group-wide Risk Specialists (pertaining to risk matters) 
•  Business Unit Risk Coordinators, Internal Audit 
Responsibilities:  
•  Enable the Risk Committee of the Board to fulfill its responsibilities as stated in its Charter 
•  Communicate and manage the establishment and ongoing maintenance of enterprise risk 
management pursuant to the Corporation’s risk management vision 
•  Ensure proper risk management ownership by Business Unit CEOs and effective oversight by 
the Regional/Business Boards 
•  Validate that enterprise risk management is functioning in each Business Unit and that all 
significant risks are being recognized and effectively managed in a timely manner 
•  Communicate with the Risk Committee regarding the status of enterprise risk management 
•  Promote the enterprise risk management model to the CEO and Business Unit heads and assist 
in integrating into their business plans and ongoing reporting 
•  Ensure a risk management capability is developed and maintained in all Business Units and 
enterprises, including new acquisitions and joint venture investments 
Specific Activities:  
•  Develop integrated procedures to report major risks 
•  Regularly visit business units and meet with senior executives to promote imbedding risk 
management into culture and daily activities 
•  Develop a standardized risk information model and automated process and ensure it is usable 
across the organization 
•  Maintain a cost– benefit focus on enterprise risk management 
•  Ensure employees are educated about risk management.  Transfer knowledge and information 
and generally assist in the efficient management of risk and help maintain an appropriate risk 
culture 
•  Work with business unit leaders to ensure business plans and budgets include risk 
identification and management 
•  Work with Business Units to ensure monitoring and reporting to ensure compliance with the 
organization’s standards and reporting of the most significant risks Roles and Responsibilities  
102 
•  Report to the Risk Committee regarding the: 
- Progression of enterprise risk management and its implementation 
- Identified significant and material risk exposures and recommendations across the 
 organization 
- Consolidated enterprise risk management plan encompassing analysis and  
 recommendations 
Professional Attributes:  
•  Foundation in enterprise risk management   
•  Ability to clearly demonstrate grasp of tenets of the organization’s enterprise risk management 
infrastructure 
•  Creative, "out of the box" thinker 
•  Experience globally with differing cultures 
•  Good executive presence 
•  Exceptional interpersonal communication skills 
•  Able to demand respect from Board and Business Units 
•  Senior management experience, i.e., member of executive team responsible for a large group 
of people, or CFO or COO experience 
•  Excellent presentation skills, articulate 
•  Superior facilitation competencies 
•  Large project management experience 
•  Strong analytical capabilities 
•  Exceptional problem-solving skills 
 
The CRO job description for a financial services company, with a somewhat more operational 
focus, is illustrated in Exhibit 10.8. 
 
Exhibit 10.8 
Chief Risk Officer Job Description, Financial Services Company 
 
Responsibilities:  
•  Establish the corporate-wide risk limits 
•  Approve risk taking authority, capital allocation and limit setting based on a business unit’s: 
-  Absolute and risk-adjusted performance 
-  Risk profile and strategy 
-  Earnings quality/consistency 
-  Efficiency of capital usage 
-  Diversification benefits or disadvantages 
-  Reliability and competence of management 
•  Establish and maintain corporate-wide risk management standards, such as standards for: 
 -  Business unit policies and limit frameworks 
-  Corporate risk data requirements 
-  Reporting to business managers, senior management and the Board 
-  Valuation and risk measurement methodology Roles and Responsibilities  
103 
•  Review and approve policy exceptions 
•  Establish a risk reporting framework including consistent risk-adjusted profitability 
measurement, analysis and decision-making tools 
•  Aggregate and analyze common risk factors across business lines (e.g., stress testing/scenario 
analysis) 
•  Conduct macro assessments of the risk profile and the drivers of change  
•  Support management of stakeholder relations 
 
Required Skills:  
•  Ability to serve as an advisor to and partner of the CEO, CFO and COO 
•  In-depth industry experience  
•  Integrity and credibility necessary to communicate with business leaders, regulators and other 
stakeholders  
•  Comprehensive risk management experience with an excellent grasp of market risk, credit risk 
and operational risk issues 
•  Excellent managerial skills able to motivate and lead a diverse group of professionals with 
varying backgrounds 
•  Excellent oral communication skills able to interact with Board members and business leaders 
•  Quick thinker with polished presentation skills able to communicate with external 
stakeholders such as regulators, investors and the financial press 
•  Strong and effective negotiating skills necessary to arbitrate/adjudicate business unit demands 
for corporate capital (financial and human) 
•  Strategic thinker able to navigate rapidly changing technology and competitive landscape 
•  Firsthand experience in lending and/or credit approval extremely desirable 
•  Ability to effectively formulate policy necessary to meet strategic objectives 
 
Management  
Senior managers in charge of organizational units have responsibility for managing risks 
related to their units' objectives. 
Heads of line business units, business processes, and functional departments are responsible 
for identifying, assessing, and responding to risk relative to meeting the unit’s objectives.  
They ensure that processes utilized are in compliance with the entity’s enterprise risk 
management policies and that their unit’s activities are within established risk tolerance 
levels.   
 
In some companies the job descriptions of these leaders explicitly outline their enterprise risk 
management responsibilities, as well as associated performance measures.  Unit leaders 
typically report on progress and issues to the CRO and/or another executive.  
Unit leaders naturally delegate responsibility for specific business unit enterprise risk 
management activities to managers in their units, with responsibilities addressing such matters 
as:  Roles and Responsibilities  
104 
•  Complying with enterprise risk management policies and developing techniques 
tailored to the unit’s activities 
•  Applying enterprise risk management techniques and methodologies to ensure risks 
are appropriately identified, assessed, responded to, reported on, and monitored 
•  Ensuring risks are managed on a daily basis 
•  Providing unit leadership with complete and accurate reports regarding the nature and 
extent of risks in the business activities 
 
As with unit leaders, some companies’ staff job descriptions outline their enterprise risk 
management responsibilities and associated performance measures.  
Internal Auditors 
In many companies, internal auditors play a key role in the ongoing functioning of enterprise 
risk management by providing objective monitoring of its application and effectiveness.  
Internal auditors may conduct examinations for the purpose of providing an objective 
assessment of the entire enterprise risk management process or subsets thereof.  In this role, 
internal auditors may support management by providing assurance on the: 
 
•  Enterprise risk management processes –  both design and function 
•  Effectiveness and efficiency of risk responses and related control activities  
•  Completeness and accuracy of enterprise risk management reporting 
 
Internal auditors sometimes act in a consulting role, where they serve to facilitate 
improvements in the organization’s enterprise risk management process.  In this capacity, 
internal auditors may, among other activities, promote development of a common 
understanding of enterprise risk management, coach management on enterprise risk 
management concepts, facilitate risk-based workshops, and provide tools and techniques to 
help managers analyze risks and design control activities. Appendix   
105 
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS  
 
The COSO Board, Advisory Council, and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP gratefully 
acknowledge the many individuals who gave their time and energy to participating in and 
contributing to various aspects of the application techniques.  Also recognized are the 
considerable efforts of the COSO organizations and their members who responded to surveys, 
participated in workshops and meetings, and provided comments and feedback throughout the 
development of these application techniques.   
 
The following PricewaterhouseCoopers partners and staff provided important input to these 
application techniques:  Dick Anderson, Jeffrey Boyle, Glenn Brady, Michael Bridge, John 
Bromfield, Gary Chamblee, Nicholas Chipman, John Copley, Michael de Crespigny, Stephen 
Delvecchio, Carlo di Florio, Scott Dillman, P. Gregory Garrison, Bruno Gasser, Suzanne 
Holifield, Susan Kenney, Brian Kinman, Robert Lamoureux, James LaTorre, Mike Maali, 
Jorge Manoel, Cathy McKeon, Juan Pujadas, Richard Reynolds, Sonny Sonnenstein, Mark 
Stephen, Robert Sullivan, Jeffrey Thompson, John Tomac, and Shyam Venkat.  Thanks go to 
Myra Cleary for her editorial guidance.   
 
Also making an important contribution to this document is Kathleen H.J. Leibfried, Senior 
Global Operational Risk Director, Citigroup Private Bank.  