Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
September 2012
Framework and Appendices
Internal Control—Integrated Framework
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
To submit comments on this Public Exposure Draft, please visit the www.ic.coso.org website. Responses are due by  
November 16, 2012.
Respondents will be asked to respond to a series of questions. Those questions may be found on-line at www.ic.coso.org and in 
a separate document provided at the time of download. Respondents may upload letters through this site. Please do not send 
responses by fax. 
Written comments on this exposure draft will become part of the public record and will be available on-line March 31, 2013.
Post Public Exposure VersionPost Public Exposure Version
©2012 All Rights Reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, redistributed, transmitted or displayed in any form or by any 
means without written permission. For information regarding licensing and reprint permissions please contact the American Institute of 
Certified Public Accountants, licensing and permissions agent for COSO copyrighted materials. Direct all inquiries to copyright@aicpa.
org or to AICPA, Attn: Manager, Rights and Permissions, 220 Leigh Farm Rd., Durham, NC 27707. Telephone inquiries may be directed 
to 888-777-7707.Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
September 2012
Framework and Appendices
Internal Control—Integrated Framework
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
To submit comments on this Public Exposure Draft, please visit the www.ic.coso.org website. Responses are due by  
November 16, 2012.
Respondents will be asked to respond to a series of questions. Those questions may be found on-line at www.ic.coso.org and in 
a separate document provided at the time of download. Respondents may upload letters through this site. Please do not send 
responses by fax. 
Written comments on this exposure draft will become part of the public record and will be available on-line March 31, 2013.
Post Public Exposure VersionPost Public Exposure Version
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of  
the Treadway Commission 
Board Members Representative 
COSO Chair David L. Landsittel
American Accounting Association Mark S. Beasley 
 Douglas F . Prawitt
The Institute of Internal Auditors Richard F . Chambers
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Charles E. Landes
Financial Executives International Marie N. Hollein
Institute of Management Accountants Sandra Rictermeyer 
 Jeffrey C. Thomson 
PwC
Author
Principal Contributors 
Miles E.A. Everson  Engagement Leader  New York, USA 
Stephen E. Soske  Project Lead Partner  Boston, USA 
Frank J. Martens  Project Lead Director  Vancouver, Canada 
Cara M. Beston  Partner  San Jose, USA 
Charles E. Harris  Partner  Florham Park, USA 
J. Aaron Garcia  Director  San Diego, USA 
Catherine I. Jourdan  Director  Paris, France 
Jay A. Posklensky  Director Florham Park, USA
Sallie Jo Perraglia  Manager  New York, USAPost Public Exposure Version
Advisory Council
Sponsoring Organizations Representatives
Audrey A. Gramling Bellarmine University Fr. Raymond J. Treece 
Endowed Chair
Steven E. Jameson Community Trust Bank  Executive Vice President and 
Chief Internal Audit & Risk 
Officer
J. Stephen McNally Campbell Soup Company  Finance Director/Controller
Ray Purcell Pfizer Director of Financial Controls
Bill Schneider AT&T Director of Accounting
Members at Large
Jennifer Burns Deloitte Partner
Jim DeLoach Protiviti Managing Director
Trent Gazzaway Grant Thornton Partner
Cees Klumper The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, 
Tuberculosis and Malaria 
Chief Risk Officer
Thomas Montminy PwC Partner
Al Paulus E&Y Partner
Thomas Ray KPMG Partner
Dr. Larry E. Rittenberg University of Wisconsin Emeritus Professor of 
Accounting Chair Emeritus 
COSO
Ken Vander Wal ISACA President
Regulatory Observers and Other Observers
James Dalkin Government Accountability  
Office 
Director in the Financial 
Management and Assurance 
Team
Harrison E. Greene, Jr. Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation 
Assistant Chief Accuntant
Christian Peo Securities and Exchange 
Commission 
Professional Accounting 
Fellow (Through June 2012)
Amy Steele Securities and Exchange 
Commission
Associate Chief Accountant 
(Commencing July 2012)
Vincent Tophoff International Federation  
of Accountants
Senior Technical Manager
Keith Wilson Public Company Accounting 
Oversight Board 
Deputy Chief AuditorPost Public Exposure Version
Additional PwC Contributors
Joseph Atkinson Partner New York, USA
Jeffrey Boyle Partner Tokyo, Japan
Glenn Brady Partner St. Louis, USA
James Chang Partner Beijing, China
Mark Cohen Partner San Francisco, USA
Andrew Dahle Partner Chicago, USA
Megan Haas Partner Hong Kong, China
Junya Hakoda Partner (Retired) Tokyo, Japan
Diana Hillier Partner London, England
Steve Hirt Partner Boston, USA
Brian Kinman Partner St. Louis, USA
Barbara Kipp Partner Boston, USA
Hans Koopmans Partner Singapore
Sachin Mandal Partner Florham Park, USA
Alan Martin Partner Frankfurt, Germany
Pat McNamee Partner Florham Park, USA
Jonathan Mullins Partner (Retired) Dallas, USA
Simon Perry Partner London, England
Andrew Reinsel Partner Cincinnati, USA
Kristin Rivera Partner San Francisco, USA
Valerie Wieman Partner Florham Park, USA
Alexander Young Partner Toronto, Canada
David Albright Principal Washington, D.C., USA
Charles Yovino Principal Atlanta, USA
Eric M. Bloesch Managing Director Philadelphia, USA
Christopher Michaelson Director Minneapolis, USA
Lisa Reshaur Director Seattle, USA
Tracy Walker Director Bangkok, Thailand
Qiao Pan Senior Associate New York, USAPost Public Exposure Version
Preface
This project was commissioned by COSO, which is dedicated to providing thought lead -
ership through the development of comprehensive frameworks and guidance on internal 
control, enterprise risk management, and fraud deterrence designed to improve organi -
zational performance and oversight and to reduce the extent of fraud in organizations. 
COSO is a private sector initiative, jointly sponsored and funded by:
 • American Accounting Association (AAA) 
 • American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) 
 • Financial Executives International (FEI) 
 • Institute of Management Accountants (IMA)
 • The Institute of Internal Auditors (IIA)Post Public Exposure VersionPost Public Exposure Version
Table of Contents
Foreword ..........................................................................................................i
Framework
1. Definition of Internal Control ....................................................................1
2. Objectives, Components, and Principles ................................................ 5
3. Effective Internal Control ........................................................................18
4. Additional Considerations .......................................................................22
5. Control Environment ...............................................................................31
6. Risk Assessment ....................................................................................59
7. Control Activities .....................................................................................87
8. Information and Communication ..........................................................105
9. Monitoring Activities .............................................................................123
10. Limitations of Internal Control ...............................................................135
Appendices
A. Glossary  ...............................................................................................140
B. Roles and Responsibilities ....................................................................144
C.  Specific Considerations for Smaller Entities ........................................155
D.  Methodology for Revising the Framework ............................................159
E. Public Comment Letters .......................................................................161
F.  Summary of Changes to the Internal Control 
—Integrated Framework Issued in 1992 ...............................................166
G.  Comparison with COSO Enterprise Risk Management 
—Integrated Framework .......................................................................173
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012Draft For Information OnlyPost Public Exposure Version
Foreword
In 1992 the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission 
(COSO) released its Internal Control—Integrated Framework  (the original framework). 
The original framework has gained broad acceptance and is widely used around the 
world. It is recognized as a leading framework for designing, implementing, and con -
ducting internal control and assessing the effectiveness of internal control. 
In the twenty years since the inception of the original framework, business and operat -
ing environments have changed dramatically, becoming increasingly complex, techno -
logically driven, and global. At the same time, stakeholders are more engaged, seeking 
greater transparency and accountability for the integrity of systems of internal control 
that support business decisions and governance of the organization.
COSO is pleased to present the updated Internal Control—Integrated Framework 
(Framework). COSO believes the Framework will enable organizations to effectively 
and efficiently develop and maintain systems of internal control that can enhance the 
likelihood of achieving the entity’s objectives and adapt to changes in the business and 
operating environments. 
The experienced reader will find much that is familiar in the Framework, which builds 
on what has proven useful in the original version. It retains the core definition of internal 
control and the five components of internal control. The requirement to consider the five 
components to assess the effectiveness of a system of internal control remains funda -
mentally unchanged. Also, the Framework continues to emphasize the importance of 
management judgment in designing, implementing, and conducting internal control, and 
in assessing the effectiveness of a system of internal control.
At the same time, the Framework includes enhancements and clarifications that are 
intended to ease use and application. One of the more significant enhancements is the 
formalization of fundamental concepts introduced in the original framework as prin -
ciples. These principles, associated with the five components, provide clarity for the 
user in designing and implementing systems of internal control and for understanding 
requirements for effective internal control. 
The Framework has been enhanced by expanding the financial reporting category of 
objectives to include other important forms of reporting, such as non-financial and inter -
nal reporting. Also, the Framework reflects considerations of many changes in the busi -
ness, operating, and regulatory environments over the past several decades, including:
 • Expectations for governance oversight
 • Globalization of markets and operations
 • Changes and greater complexity in the business
 • Demands and complexities in laws, rules, regulations, and standards 
 • Expectations for competencies and accountabilities 
 • Use of, and reliance on, evolving technologies
 • Expectations relating to preventing and detecting fraud 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
i
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
COSO is pleased to present the Framework in three volumes. The first is an Executive 
Summary: a high-level overview intended for the board of directors, chief executive 
officer, other senior management, regulators, and standard setters. The second volume, 
Framework and Appendices , sets out the Framework, including the definition of inter-
nal control and the components and principles supporting effective systems of internal 
control. Included within the Framework are the following chapters:
 • Definition of Internal Control 
 • Objectives, Components, and Principles 
 • Effective Internal Control 
 • Additional Considerations
 • Control Environment
 • Risk Assessment
 • Control Activities
 • Information and Communication
 • Monitoring Activities
 • Limitations
The second volume provides direction for all levels of management to use in design -
ing, implementing, and conducting internal control and assessing its effectiveness. 
The appendices to the second volume provide reference, but are not considered a part 
of the Framework. The third volume, Illustrative Tools for Assessing Effectiveness of 
a System of Internal Control, provides templates and scenarios that may be useful in 
applying the Framework.
In addition to the three volumes, Internal Control over External Financial Reporting: 
Compendium of Approaches and Examples has been published concurrently to provide 
practical approaches and examples that illustrate how the components and principles 
set forth in the Framework can be applied in preparing external financial statements. 
COSO may, in the future, issue other documents to provide assistance in applying the 
Framework. However, neither the Internal Control over External Financial Reporting: 
Compendium of Approaches and Examples nor any other future guidance takes prece -
dence over the Framework.
Among other publications published by COSO is the Enterprise Risk Management—
Integrated Framework (the ERM Framework). The ERM Framework and the Frame-
work are intended to be complementary, and neither supersedes the other. Yet, while 
these frameworks are distinct and provide a different focus, they do overlap. The ERM  
Framework encompasses internal control, with several portions of the text of the original 
Internal Control—Integrated Framework  reproduced. Consequently, the ERM Frame-
work remains a viable and suitable framework for designing, implementing, conduct -
ing, and assessing enterprise risk management. Organizations that have implemented 
the ERM Framework will likely see minimal impact on their enterprise risk management 
efforts resulting from the issuance of this updated version of Internal Control—Inte -
grated Framework: Framework and Appendices . 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
ii
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 Post Public Exposure Version
Finally, the COSO Board would like to thank PwC and the Advisory Council for their con -
tributions in developing the Framework and related documents. Their full consideration 
of input provided by many stakeholders and their attention to detail were instrumental in 
ensuring that the core strengths of the original framework have been preserved, clari -
fied, and strengthened. 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
iii
12 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
ivPost Public Exposure Version
Definition of Internal Control
1. Definition of Internal Control
The purpose of this Internal Control—Integrated Framework (Framework) is to help 
management better control the organization and to provide a board of directors 1 with 
an added ability to oversee internal control. A system of internal control allows man -
agement to stay focused on the organization’s pursuit of its operations and financial 
performance goals, while operating within the confines of relevant laws and minimizing 
surprises along the way. Internal control enables an organization to deal more effec -
tively with changing economic and competitive environments, leadership, priorities, and 
evolving business models. 
Understanding Internal Control 
Internal control is defined as follows:
Internal control is a process, effected by an entity’s board of directors, manage -
ment, and other personnel, designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding 
the achievement of objectives relating to operations, reporting, and compliance.
This definition emphasizes that internal control is:
 • Geared to the achievement of objectives in one or more separate but overlap -
ping categories
 • A process consisting of ongoing tasks and activities—it is a means to an end, 
not an end in itself
 • Effected by people—it is not merely about policy and procedure manuals, 
systems, and forms, but about people and the actions they take at every level 
of an organization to effect internal control
 • Able to provide reasonable assurance , not absolute assurance, to an entity’s 
senior management and board of directors 
 • Adaptable to the entity structure —flexible in application for the entire entity or 
for a particular subsidiary, division, operating unit, or business process
This definition of internal control is intentionally broad for two reasons. First, it captures 
important concepts that are fundamental to how organizations design, implement, and 
conduct internal control and assess effectiveness of their system of internal control, 
providing a basis for application across various types of organizations, industries, and 
geographic regions. Second, the definition accommodates subsets of internal control. 
Those who want to may focus separately, for example, on internal control over reporting 
or controls relating to complying with laws and regulations. Similarly, a directed focus 
on controls in particular units or activities of an entity can be accommodated.
1 The Framework uses the term “board of directors,” which encompasses the governing body, including 
board, board of trustees, general partners, owner, or supervisory board.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
1
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
It also provides flexibility in application, allowing an organization to sustain internal 
control across the entire entity; at a subsidiary, division, or operating unit level; or within 
a function relevant to the entity’s operations, reporting, or compliance objectives, based 
on the entity’s specific needs or circumstances.
Geared to the Achievement of Objectives
The Framework sets forth three categories of objectives, which allow organizations to 
focus on separate aspects of internal control: 
 • Operations Objectives —These pertain to effectiveness and efficiency of the 
entity’s operations, including operational and financial performance goals, and 
safeguarding assets against loss. 
 • Reporting Objectives —These pertain to internal and external financial and 
non-financial reporting and may encompass reliability, timeliness, trans
-
parency, or other terms as set forth by regulators, standard setters, or the 
entity’s policies.
 • Compliance Objectives —These pertain to adherence to laws and regulations 
to which the entity is subject. 
These distinct but overlapping categories—a particular objective can fall under more 
than one category—address different needs and may be the direct responsibility of 
different individuals. The three categories also indicate what can be expected from 
internal control.
A system of internal control is expected to provide an organization with reasonable 
assurance that those objectives relating to external reporting and compliance with laws 
and regulations will be achieved. Achieving those objectives, which are based largely on 
laws, rules, regulations, or standards established by legislators, regulators, and stan -
dard setters, depends on how activities within the organization’s control are performed. 
Generally, management and/or the board have greater discretion in setting internal 
reporting objectives that are not driven primarily by such external parties. However, the 
organization may choose to align its internal and external reporting objectives to allow 
internal reporting to better support the entity’s external reporting.
In those instances where the organization operates in accordance with external stan -
dards—for instance in applying an external standard relating to quality or information 
processing—an organization is able to attain reasonable assurance that objectives relat -
ing to the efficiency and effectiveness of operations are achieved. However, achieve -
ment of operations objectives—such as a particular return on investment, market share, 
or entry into new product lines—is not always within the organization’s control. Internal 
control cannot prevent bad judgments or decisions, or external events that can cause 
an organization to fail to achieve operational goals. For these objectives, systems of 
internal control can only provide reasonable assurance that management and the board 
are made aware, in a timely manner, of the extent to which the entity is moving toward 
those objectives.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
2
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 Post Public Exposure Version
Definition of Internal Control
A Process
Internal control is not one event or circumstance, but a dynamic and iterative process 2—
actions that permeate an entity’s activities and that are inherent in the way management 
runs the entity. Embedded within this process are controls consisting of policies and 
procedures. These policies reflect management or board statements of what should be 
done to effect internal control. Such statements may be documented, explicitly stated in 
other management communications, or implied through management actions and deci -
sions. Procedures consist of actions that implement a policy.
Business processes, which are conducted within or across operating units or func -
tional areas, are managed through the fundamental management activities, such as 
planning, executing, and checking. Internal control is integrated with these processes. 
Internal control embedded within these processes and activities are likely more effective 
and efficient. 
Effected by People
Internal control is effected by the board of directors, management, and other personnel. 
It is accomplished by the people of an organization, by what they do and say. People 
establish the entity’s objectives and put actions in place to achieve specified objectives.
The board’s oversight responsibilities include providing advice and direction to manage -
ment, constructively challenging management, approving policies and transactions, 
and monitoring management’s activities. Consequently, the board of directors is an 
important element of internal control. The board and senior management establish the 
tone for the organization concerning the importance of internal control and the expected 
standards of conduct across the entity.
Issues arise every day in managing an entity. People may not fully understand the nature 
of such issues or alternatives available to them, communicate effectively, or perform 
consistently. Each individual brings to the workplace a unique background and ability, 
and each has different needs and priorities. These individual differences can be inher -
ently valuable and beneficial to innovation and productivity, but if not properly aligned 
with the entity’s objectives they can be counterproductive. Yet, people must know their 
responsibilities and limits of authority. Accordingly, a clear and close linkage needs to 
exist between people’s roles and responsibilities and the way in which these duties are 
carried out and aligned with the entity’s objectives.
Provides Reasonable Assurance
An effective system of internal control provides management and the board of directors 
with reasonable assurance regarding achievement of an entity’s objectives. The term 
“reasonable assurance” rather than “absolute assurance” acknowledges that limitations 
exist in all systems of internal control, and that uncertainties and risks may exist, which 
no one can confidently predict with precision. Absolute assurance is not possible. 
2 Although referred to as a process, internal control comprises many processes.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
3
23 
24 
25 
26 
27 
28 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
Reasonable assurance does not imply that an entity will always achieve its objectives. 
Effective internal control increases the likelihood of an entity achieving its objectives. 
However, the likelihood of achievement is affected by limitations inherent in all internal 
control systems, such as human error and the uncertainty inherent in judgment. Addi -
tionally, a system of internal control can be circumvented if people collude. Further, if 
management is able to override controls, the entire system may fail. In other words, 
even an effective system of internal control can experience a failure. 
Adaptable to the Entity Structure
Entities may be structured along various dimensions. The management operating model 
may follow product or service lines; reporting may be done for a consolidated entity, 
division, or operating unit, with geographic markets providing for further subdivisions or 
aggregations of performance. The management operating model may utilize outsourced 
service providers to support the achievement of objectives.
The legal entity structure is typically designed to follow regulatory reporting require -
ments, limit risk, or provide tax benefits. Often the organization of legal entities is quite 
different from the management operating model used to manage operations, allocate 
resources, measure performance, and report results. 
Internal control can be applied, based on management’s decision and in the context of 
legal or regulatory requirements, to the management operating model, legal entity struc -
ture, or a combination of these. 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
4
29 
30 
31 
32 Post Public Exposure Version
Objectives, Components, and Principles
2.  Objectives, Components, and 
Principles
Introduction
An organization adopts a mission and vision, sets strategies, establishes objectives it 
wants to achieve, and formulates plans for achieving them. Objectives may be set for 
an entity as a whole, or be targeted to specific activities within the entity. Though many 
objectives are specific to a particular entity, some are widely shared. For example, 
objectives common to most entities are sustaining organizational success, reporting to 
stakeholders, recruiting and retaining motivated and competent employees, achieving 
and maintaining a positive reputation, and complying with laws and regulations.
Supporting the organization in its efforts to achieve objectives are five components of 
internal control:
 • Control Environment
 • Risk Assessment
 • Control Activities
 • Information and Communication
 • Monitoring Activities
These components are relevant to an entire entity and to the entity level, its subsidiaries, 
division, or any of its individual operating units, functions, or other subsets of the entity. 
Relationship of Objectives, Components, and the Entity
A direct relationship exists between objectives, which are what an entity strives to 
achieve, components, which represent what is required to achieve the 
objectives, and entity structure (the operating units, legal entities, and 
other structures). The relationship can be depicted in the form of a cube.
 • The three categories of objectives are represented by 
the columns.
 • The five components are represented by the rows.
 • The entity structure, which represents the overall entity, divisions, 
subsidiaries, operating units, or functions, including business 
processes such as sales, purchasing, production, and market
-
ing and to which internal control relates, are depicted by the third 
dimension of the cube.
3
3 Throughout the Framework, the term “the entity and its subunits” refers collectively to the  
overall entity, divisions, subsidiaries, operating units, and functions.
Control Environment
Risk Assessment
Control Activities
Information & Communication
Monitoring Activities
Operations
Entity Level
Division
Operating Unit
Function
Reporting Compliance
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
5
33 
34 
35 
36 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
Each component cuts across and applies to all three categories of objectives. For 
example, selecting policies and procedures that help ensure that management’s state -
ments, actions, and decisions are carried out—part of the control activities compo -
nent—are relevant to all three objectives categories.
The three categories of objectives are not parts or units of the entity. For instance, 
operations objectives relate to the efficiency and effectiveness of operations, not 
specific operating units or functions such as sales, marketing, procurement, or 
human resources.
Accordingly, when considering the category of objectives related to reporting, for 
example, knowledge of a wide array of information about the entity’s operations is 
needed. In that case, focus is on the middle column of the model—reporting objec -
tives—rather than the operations objectives category.
Internal control is a dynamic, iterative, and integrated process. For example, risk 
assessment not only influences the control environment and control activities, but also 
may highlight a need to reconsider the entity’s requirements for information and com -
munication, or for its monitoring activities. Thus, internal control is not a linear process 
where one component affects only the next. It is an integrated process in which compo -
nents can and will impact another.
No two entities will, or should, have the same system of internal control. Entities, objec -
tives, and systems of internal control differ dramatically by industry and regulatory envi -
ronment, as well as by internal considerations such as the size, nature of the manage -
ment operating model, tolerance for risk, reliance on technology, and competence and 
number of personnel. Thus, while all entities require each of the components to maintain 
effective internal control over their activities, one entity’s system of internal control 
usually looks different from another’s.
Objectives
Management, with board oversight, sets entity-level objectives that align with the 
entity’s mission, vision, and strategies. These high-level objectives reflect choices made 
by management and board of directors about how the organization seeks to create, pre -
serve, and realize value for its stakeholders. Such objectives may focus on the entity’s 
unique operations needs, or align with laws, rules, regulations, and standards imposed 
by legislators, regulators, and standard setters, or some combination of the two. 
Setting objectives is a prerequisite to internal control and a key part of the management 
process relating to strategic planning. 
Individuals who are part of the system of internal control need to understand the overall 
strategies and objectives set by the organization. As part of internal control, manage -
ment specifies suitable objectives so that risks to the achievement of such objectives 
can be identified and assessed. Specifying objectives relates to the articulation of spe -
cific, measurable or observable, attainable, relevant, and time-bound objectives. 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
6
37 
38 
39 
40 
41 
42 
43 Post Public Exposure Version
Objectives, Components, and Principles
In most instances, specifying objectives requires some form of codification. However 
there may be instances where an entity might not explicitly state an objective. Objec -
tives specified in appropriate detail can be readily understood by the people who are 
working toward achieving them.
Categories of Objectives
The Framework groups entity objectives into the three categories of operations, report -
ing, and compliance.
Operations Objectives
Operations objectives relate to the achievement of an entity’s basic mission and vision—
the fundamental reason for its existence. These objectives vary based on manage -
ment’s choices relating to the management operating model, industry considerations, 
and performance. Entity-level objectives cascade into related sub-objectives for opera -
tions within divisions, subsidiaries, operating units, and functions, directed at enhancing 
effectiveness and efficiency in moving the entity toward its ultimate goal. 
As such, operations objectives may relate to improving financial performance, produc -
tivity (e.g., avoiding waste and rework), quality, environmental practices, innovation, and 
customer and employee satisfaction. These objectives pertain to all types of entities. 
For example, a for-profit entity may focus on revenue, profitability, return on assets, and 
liquidity. In contrast, a not-for-profit entity, though certainly concerned with revenues 
or levels of spending, may focus more on increasing donor participation. A governmen -
tal agency may focus primarily on executing its spending in line with the designated 
purposes of its appropriators to ensure that the spending supports its mission objec -
tives. If an entity’s operations objectives are not well conceived or clearly specified, its 
resources may be misdirected. 
Safeguarding of Assets
The operations category of objectives includes safeguarding of assets, which refers 
to protecting and preserving entity assets. For instance, an entity may set objectives 
relating to the prevention of loss of assets and the timely detection and reporting of any 
such losses. These objectives form the basis of assessing risk relating to safeguarding 
of assets and selecting and developing controls needed to mitigate such risk. 
The efficient use of an entity’s assets, and prevention of loss through waste, inef -
ficiency, or poor business decisions (e.g., selling product at too low a price, extend -
ing credit to bad risks, failing to retain key employees, preventing patent infringement, 
incurring unforeseen liabilities) relate to a broader operations objectives and are not a 
specific consideration relating to safeguarding of assets.
Laws, rules, regulations, and standards have created an expectation that management 
reporting on internal control includes controls relating to preventing and detecting unau -
thorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the assets. In addition, some entities consider 
safeguarding of assets a separate category of objective, and that view can be accom -
modated within the application of the Framework. 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
7
44 
45 
46 
47 
48 
49 
50 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
Reporting Objectives
Reporting objectives pertain to the preparation of reports for use by organizations and 
stakeholders. Reporting objectives may relate to financial or non-financial reporting 
and to internal or external reporting. Internal reporting objectives are driven by internal 
requirements in response to a variety of potential needs such as the entity’s strategic 
directions, operating plans, and performance metrics at various levels. External report -
ing objectives are driven primarily by regulations and/or standards established by regu -
lators, and standard-setting bodies.
 • External Financial Reporting Objectives —Entities need to achieve external 
financial reporting objectives to meet obligations to and expectations of stake -
holders. Financial statements are necessary for accessing capital markets 
and may be critical to being awarded contracts or in dealing with suppli
-
ers and vendors. Investors, analysts, and creditors often rely on an entity’s 
external financial statements to assess its performance against peers and 
alternative investments. Management may also be required to publish financial 
statements using objectives set forth by rules, regulations, and standards. 
 • External Non-Financial Reporting Objectives —Management may report 
external non-financial information in accordance with regulations, standards, 
or frameworks. An entity may engage an independent auditor to report on 
its conformance with standards published by standard-setting bodies. Non-
financial reporting requirements as set forth by regulations and standards for 
management reporting on the effectiveness of internal control over financial 
reporting are part of external non-financial reporting objectives. For purposes 
of the Framework, external reporting in the absence of a regulation, standard, 
or framework represents external communication. 
 • Internal Financial and Non-Financial Reporting Objectives —Internal reporting 
to management and the board of directors includes information deemed nec
-
essary to manage the organization. It supports decision making and assess -
ment of the entity’s activities and performance. Internal reporting objectives 
are based on preferences and judgments of management and the board. 
Internal reporting objectives vary among entities because different organiza
-
tions have different strategic directions, operating plans, and expectations. 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
8
51 Post Public Exposure Version
Objectives, Components, and Principles
Relationship within Reporting Category of Objectives
The overall relationship between the four sub-categories of reporting objectives is 
shown in the graphic below.
Reporting objectives are different from the information and communication component 
of internal control. Management establishes, with board oversight, reporting objectives 
when the organization needs reasonable assurance of achieving a particular report -
ing objective. In these situations all five components of internal control are needed. 
For instance, in preparing internal non-financial reporting to the board on the status 
of merger integration efforts, the organization specifies the reporting objectives (e.g., 
prepares reliable, relevant, and useful reports), assigns competent individuals, assesses 
risks relating to specified objectives, selects and develops controls within the five com -
ponents necessary to mitigate such risks, and monitors components of internal control 
supporting the specified non-financial reporting objective. 
In contrast, the Information and Communication component supports the function -
ing of all components of objectives, as well as operations and compliance objectives. 
For instance, controls within information and communication supports the preparation 
of the above report, helping to provide relevant and quality information underlying the 
report, but these controls are only part of the overall system of internal control. 
Characteristics
External Financial 
Reporting
Annual Financial 
Statements
Interim Financial 
Statements 
Earnings Releases
Internal Financial 
Reporting
Divisional Financial 
Statements
Cash Flow / Budget
Bank Covenant 
Calculations
External Non-Financial 
Reporting
Internal Control Report
Sustainability Report
Supply Chain / Custody 
of Assets
Internal Non-Financial 
Reporting
Staff/Asset Utilization
Customer Satisfaction 
Surveys
Key Risk Indicator 
Dashboards
Board Reporting
Financial/Non Financial
Internal/External
 • Used to meet external
stakeholder and regulatory 
requirements
 
• Prepared in accordance
with external standards 
 
• May be required by 
regulators, contracts, 
agreements 
 
• Used in managing 
the business and 
decision making 
 
• Established by 
management and board 
Internal/External
Financial/Non Financial
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
9
52 
53 
54 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
Compliance Objectives
Entities must conduct activities, and often take specific actions, in accordance with 
applicable laws and regulations. As part of specifying compliance objectives, the orga -
nization needs to understand which laws and regulations apply across the entity. Many 
laws and regulations are generally well known, such as those relating to taxation and 
environmental compliance, but others may be more obscure, such as those that apply 
to an entity conducting operations in a remote foreign territory. 
Laws and regulations establish minimum standards of conduct expected of the entity. 
The organization is expected to incorporate these standards into the objectives set for 
the entity. Some organizations will set objectives to a higher level of performance than 
established by laws and regulations. In setting those objectives, management is able 
to exercise discretion relative to the performance of the entity. For instance, a particu -
lar law may limit minors working outside school hours to eighteen hours in a school 
week. However, a retail food service company may choose to limit its minor-age staff to 
working fifteen hours per week.
For purposes of the Framework, compliance with an entity’s internal policies and pro -
cedures, as opposed to compliance with external laws and regulations as discussed 
above, relates to operations objectives.
Overlap of Objectives Categories
An objective in one category may overlap or support an objective in another. For 
example, “closing financial reporting period within five workdays” may be a goal 
supporting primarily an operations objective—to support management in review -
ing business performance. But it also supports timely reporting and filings with 
regulatory agencies. 
The category in which an objective falls may vary depending on the circumstances. For 
instance, controls to prevent theft of assets—such as maintaining a fence around inven -
tory, or having a gatekeeper to verify proper authorization of requests for movement 
of goods—fall under the operations category. These controls may not be relevant to 
reporting where inventory losses are detected after a periodic physical inspection and 
recording in the financial statements. However, if for reporting purposes management 
relies solely on perpetual inventory records, as may be the case for interim or internal 
financial reporting, the physical security controls would then also fall within the report -
ing category. These physical security controls, along with controls over the perpetual 
inventory records, are needed to achieve reporting objectives. A clear understanding is 
needed of the entity’s business processes, policies and procedures, and the respective 
impact on each category of objectives.
Basis of Objectives Categories
Some objectives are derived from the regulatory or industry environments in which the 
entity operates. For example:
 • Some entities submit information to environmental agencies.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
10
55 
56 
57 
58 
59 
60 Post Public Exposure Version
Objectives, Components, and Principles
 • Publicly traded companies file information with securities regulators.
 • Universities report grant expenditures to government agencies. 
These objectives are established largely by law or regulation, and fall into the category 
of compliance, external reporting, or, in these examples, both. 
Conversely, operations and internal reporting objectives are based more on the orga -
nization’s preferences, judgments, and choices. These objectives vary widely among 
entities simply because informed and competent people may select different objectives. 
For example, one organization might choose to be an early adopter of emerging tech -
nologies in developing new products, whereas another might be a quick follower, and 
yet another a late adopter. These choices would reflect the entity’s strategies and the 
competencies, technologies, and controls within its research and development function. 
Consequently, no one formulation of objectives can be optimal for all entities.
Objectives and Sub-Objectives 
Management links specified entity-level objectives to more specific sub-objectives that 
cascade throughout the organization. Sub-objectives also are established as part of 
or flowing from the strategy-setting process, and relate to the entity and its subunits 
and functional activities such as sales, production, engineering, marketing, produc -
tivity, employee engagement, innovation, and information technology. Management 
aligns these sub-objectives with entity-level objectives and coordinates these across 
the entity.
Where entity-level objectives are consistent with prior practice and performance, the 
linkage between activities is usually known. Where objectives depart from an entity’s 
past practices, management addresses the linkages or accepts increased risks. For 
example, an entity-level objective relating to customer satisfaction depends on linked 
sub-objectives dealing with the introduction of services that use a newer and less 
proven technology infrastructure. These sub-objectives might need to be substantially 
changed if past practice used older, proven technologies. 
Sub-objectives for operating units and functional activities also need to be specific, 
measurable or observable, attainable, relevant, and time-bound. In addition, they must 
be readily understood by the people who are working toward achieving them. Manage -
ment and other personnel require a mutual understanding of both what is to be accom -
plished and the means of determining to what extent it is accomplished in order to 
ensure individual and team accountability.
Entities specify multiple sub-objectives for each activity, flowing both from the entity-
level objectives and from established standards relating to compliance and reporting 
objectives, as deemed suitable in the circumstances. For example, procurement opera -
tions objectives may be to:
 • Purchase goods that meet engineering specifications
 • Purchase goods from companies that meet environmental, health, and safety 
specifications (e.g., no child labor, good working conditions)
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
11
61 
62 
63 
64 
65 
66 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
 • Negotiate acceptable prices and other terms
As another example, when specifying suitable external reporting objectives relating to 
the preparation of external financial statements, Objectives, Components, and Prin -
ciples 12 management considers accounting standards, financial statement asser -
tions, and qualitative characteristics that are applicable to the entity and its subunits. 
For example, management may set an entity-level external financial reporting objective 
as follows: “Our company prepares reliable financial statements reflecting activities in 
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.” 
Management also specifies suitable sub-objectives for divisions, subsidiaries, operat -
ing units, and functions with sufficient clarity to support entity-level objectives. For 
instance, management specifies subobjectives for sales transactions that apply appli -
cable accounting standards based on the circumstances and that address relevant 
financial statement assertions and qualitative characteristics, such as:
 • All sales transactions that occur are recorded on a timely basis.
 • Sales transactions are recorded at correct amounts in the right accounts.
 • Sales transactions are accurately and completely summarized in the entity’s 
books and records. 
 • Presentation and disclosures relating to sales are properly described, sorted, 
and classified.
Components and Principles of Internal Control
The Framework sets out five components of internal control and seventeen principles 
representing the fundamental concepts associated with components. These compo -
nents and principles of internal control are suitable for all entities. All seventeen prin -
ciples apply to each category of objective, as well as to objectives and sub-objectives 
within a category. For instance, an entity may apply the Framework relative to complying 
with a specific law regarding commercial arrangements with foreign entities, a sub-
category of the compliance category of objectives. 
Below is a summary of each of the five components of internal control and the princi -
ples relating to components. Each of the principles is covered in the respective compo -
nent chapters.
4
Control Environment 
The control environment is the set of standards, processes, and structures that provide 
the basis for carrying out internal control across the organization. The board of direc -
tors and senior management establish the tone at the top regarding the importance of 
internal control and expected standards of conduct. 
4 For purposes of the Framework, when describing principles the term “organization” is used to capture the 
meaning of, collectively, the board of directors, management, and other personnel. Typically the board of 
directors serves an oversight capacity within this term.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
12
67 
68 
69 
70 
71 Post Public Exposure Version
Objectives, Components, and Principles
There are five principles relating to Control Environment:
1. The organization demonstrates a commitment to integrity and ethical values. 
2. The board of directors demonstrates independence from management and exer -
cises oversight of the development and performance of internal control. 
3. Management establishes, with board oversight, structures, reporting lines, and 
appropriate authorities and responsibilities in the pursuit of objectives. 
4. The organization demonstrates a commitment to attract, develop, and retain com -
petent individuals in alignment with objectives.
5. The organization holds individuals accountable for their internal control responsibili -
ties in the pursuit of objectives.
Risk Assessment
Risk assessment involves a dynamic and iterative process for identifying and ana -
lyzing risks to achieving the entity’s objectives, forming a basis for determining how 
risks should be managed. Management considers possible changes in the external 
environment and within its own business model that may impede its ability to achieve 
its objectives. 
There are four principles relating to Risk Assessment:
6. The organization specifies objectives with sufficient clarity to enable the identifica -
tion and assessment of risks relating to objectives.
7. The organization identifies risks to the achievement of its objectives across 
the entity and analyzes risks as a basis for determining how the risks should 
be managed.
8. The organization considers the potential for fraud in assessing risks to the achieve -
ment of objectives.
9. The organization identifies and assesses changes that could significantly impact the 
system of internal control.
Control Activities
Control activities are the actions established by policies and procedures to help ensure 
that management directives to mitigate risks to the achievement of objectives are 
carried out. Control activities are performed at all levels of the entity and at various 
stages within business processes, and over the technology environment. 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
13
72 
73 
74 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
There are three principles relating to Control Activities:
10. The organization selects and develops control activities that contribute to the miti -
gation of risks to the achievement of objectives to acceptable levels.
11. The organization selects and develops general control activities over technology to 
support the achievement of objectives.
12. The organization deploys control activities through policies that establish what is 
expected and procedures that put policies into action.
Information and Communication
Information is necessary for the entity to carry out internal control responsibilities in 
support of achievement of its objectives. Communication occurs both internally and 
externally and provides the organization with the information needed to carry out day-
to-day internal control activities. Communication enables personnel to understand 
internal control responsibilities and their importance to the achievement of objectives. 
There are three principles relating to Information and Communication:
13. The organization obtains or generates and uses relevant, quality information to 
support the functioning of other components of internal control.
14. The organization internally communicates information, including objectives and 
responsibilities for internal control, necessary to support the functioning of other 
components of internal control.
15. The organization communicates with external parties regarding matters affecting 
the functioning of other components of internal control.
Monitoring Activities
Ongoing evaluations, separate evaluations, or some combination of the two are used to 
ascertain whether each of the five components of internal control, including controls to 
effect the principles within each component, are present and functioning. Findings are 
evaluated and deficiencies are communicated in a timely manner, with serious matters 
reported to senior management and to the board. 
There are two principles relating to Monitoring Activities:
16. The organization selects, develops, and performs ongoing and/or separate evalu -
ations to ascertain whether the components of internal control are present and 
functioning.
17. The organization evaluates and communicates internal control deficiencies in a 
timely manner to those parties responsible for taking corrective action, including 
senior management and the board of directors, as appropriate.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
14
75 
76 
77 
78 
79 Post Public Exposure Version
Objectives, Components, and Principles
Internal Control and the Management Process
Because internal control is a part of management’s overall responsibility, the five com -
ponents are discussed in the context of the management of the entity. Not every deci -
sion or action of management, however, is part of internal control: 
 • Having a board that comprises directors with sufficient independence from 
management and that carries out its oversight role is part of internal control. 
However, many decisions reached by the board are not part of internal 
control; for example approving a particular mission or vision. The board also 
fulfills a variety of governance responsibilities in addition to its responsibilities 
for oversight of internal control.
 • Making strategic decisions impacting the entity’s objectives is not part of 
internal control. An organization may apply enterprise risk management 
approaches or other approaches in setting objectives. 
 • Setting the overall level of acceptable risk and associated risk appetite
5 is 
part of strategic planning and enterprise risk management, not part of internal 
control. Similarly, setting risk tolerance levels in relation to specific objectives 
is also not part of internal control.
 • Selecting and developing control activities designed to mitigate risks based 
on the organization’s risk assessment process is a part of internal control; 
however, choosing which risk response is preferred to address specific risks is 
not part of internal control. 
Internal Control and Objective-Setting
It is not practical to design and implement a system of internal control unless the 
entity’s objectives are established, set, and specified for the organization. Establishing 
and setting objectives and related sub-objectives are parts of or flow from the strategic-
planning process, with consideration given to laws, rules, regulations, and standards as 
well as management’s own choices. However, internal control cannot dictate or estab -
lish what an entity’s objectives should be. 
As part of internal control, an organization specifies objectives by:
 • Articulating and codifying specific, measurable or observable, attainable, 
relevant and time-based objectives 
 • Assessing suitability of objectives and sub-objectives for internal control 
based on facts, circumstances, and established laws, rules, regulations, 
and standards
 • Communicating objectives and sub-objectives throughout the entity 
and sub-units
The following diagram illustrates establishing and setting objectives as part of the 
management process outside of internal control, and specifying and using objec -
tives as part of internal control in the context of an external financial reporting and an 
operations objective. 
5 “Risk appetite” is defined as the amount of risk, on a broad level, an entity is willing to accept in pursuit of 
its mission/vision.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
15
80 
81 
82 
83 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
Part of the Management Process Part of Internal Control
External parties establish 
laws, rules, and stan-
dards (where applicable) 
relating to compliance 
and external financial 
reporting objectives.
Set strategic objectives 
and select strategy 
within the context of 
an entity’s established 
mission or vision.
Set entity-wide objec-
tives and develop risk tol-
erances based on entity 
requirements.
Align objectives with 
entity strategy and 
overall risk appetite.
Set objectives and sub-
objectives for the entity 
and its subunits.
Articulate specific, mea -
surable or observable, 
attainable, relevant and 
time-based objectives.
Assess suitablity of 
objectives and sub-
objectives for internal 
control based on facts, 
circumstances, and 
established laws, rules, 
and standards.
Communicate objec-
tives and sub-objectives 
throughout the entity and 
its subunits.
Use specified objec-
tives and sub-objectives 
as basis for risk 
assessment.
Examples of Financial Reporting Objectives and Sub-Objectives
The Financial Accounting 
Standards Board (FASB) 
established account-
ing principles generally 
accepted in the United 
States of America (US 
GAAP).
Our company prepares 
reliable financial state-
ments reflecting activi -
ties in accordance with 
U S G A A P.
Management assesses 
whether US GAAP is 
relevant and appropriate 
in the circumstances. 
If not, management 
provides feedback to 
the objective-setting 
process.
Management identifies 
and assesses risk to pre -
paring reliable financial 
statements reflecting 
activities in accordance 
with US GAAP.
A regulatory body 
establishes an account-
ing standard on revenue 
recognition.
Our company recognizes 
sales revenue upon 
installation of equipment 
for sales-type capital 
leases or recognizes 
rental revenue over the 
operating lease term.
Operating unit financial 
management assesses 
whether financial 
reporting objectives and 
sub-objectives relating to 
revenue recognition are 
relevant and appropriate 
to all equipment sales. 
If not, operating unit 
financial management 
provides feedback to the 
objective setting process.
Operating unit financial 
management identifies 
and assesses risk to 
recording revenue on 
equipment sales in accor-
dance with US GAAP.
Example of Operations Objectives
Not applicable for opera-
tions objectives.
Our company seeks to 
improve performance 
by increasing inventory 
turnover ratio to twelve 
times per year, recogniz-
ing that lower inventory 
levels may result in more 
backorder items for 
customers.
Operating unit manage-
ment assesses whether 
operations objectives 
relating to inventory turn-
over goals are appropri-
ate. If not, operating unit 
financial management 
provides feedback to the 
objective setting process.
Operating unit manage-
ment identifies and 
assesses risk to the 
achievement of an inven-
tory turnover ratio of 
twelve times per year.
Establish Set Specify Use
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
16Post Public Exposure Version
Objectives, Components, and Principles
Limitations of Internal Control 
The Framework recognizes that while internal control provides reasonable assurance of 
achieving the entity’s objectives, limitations do exist and may result from the:
 • Suitability of objectives established as a precondition to internal control
 • Reality that human judgment in decision making can be faulty
 • Breakdowns that can occur because of human failures such as errors 
 • Ability of management to override internal control
 • Ability of management, other personnel, and/or third parties to circumvent 
controls through collusion 
These limitations preclude the board and management from having absolute assurance 
of the achievement of the entity’s objectives—that is, internal control provides reason -
able but not absolute assurance.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
17
84 
85 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
3. Effective Internal Control
Requirements for Effective Internal Control
An effective system of internal control provides reasonable assurance regarding 
achievement of an entity’s objectives. Because internal control is relevant both to the 
entity and its subunits, an effective system of internal control may relate to a specific 
part of the organizational structure. An effective system of internal control reduces, to 
an acceptable level, the risk of not achieving an objective relating to one, two, or all 
three categories. It requires that: 
 • Each of the five components of internal control and relevant principles are 
present and functioning
 • The five components are operating together in an integrated manner 
When a major deficiency exists with respect to the presence and functioning of a 
component or relevant principle or in terms of the components operating together, the 
organization cannot conclude that it has met the requirements for an effective system of 
internal control. 
When internal control is determined to be effective, senior management and the board 
of directors have reasonable assurance, that the organization:
 • Achieves operations objectives when standards and criteria are established 
by legislators, regulators, and standard setters
 • Understands the extent to which operations are managed effectively and effi
-
ciently when external standards do not exist
 • Prepares reports in conformity with rules, regulations, and standards estab -
lished by legislators, regulators, and standard setters, or with the entity’s 
specified objectives and related policies
 • Complies with applicable laws and regulations
The Framework sets forth that the components and relevant principles are requisite to 
an effective system of internal control. It does not prescribe the process for how man -
agement assesses its effectiveness.  
Present and Functioning
The phrase “present and functioning” is applied to components and principles. 
 • “Present” refers to the determination that components and relevant principles 
exist in the design and implementation of the system of internal control. 
 • “Functioning” refers to the determination that components and relevant 
principles continue to exist in the operation and conduct of the system of 
internal control.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
18
86 
87 
88 
89 
90 Post Public Exposure Version
Effective Internal Control
A component or relevant principle that is present and functioning implies that 
the organization:
 • Understands the intent of components and how relevant principles are 
being applied 
 • Helps personnel understand and apply relevant principles across the entity
 • Views weakness in, or absence of, a principle as a situation that triggers man
-
agement attention
Role of Components
The Framework views all components of internal control as suitable and relevant to all 
entities, and therefore requires that all components be present and functioning and 
operating together in an integrated manner. Evaluating whether each component of 
internal control is present and functioning and whether the components are operat -
ing together requires consideration of how components are being applied by the entity 
within the system of internal control. Each of the five components operating together 
help to collectively reduce, to an acceptable level, the risk of not achieving an objective. 
When a component is deemed not to be present and functioning, or when components 
do not operate together, a major deficiency exists.
For instance, senior management determines whether the component of Information 
and Communication is operating together with the other components. Management 
asks the question, How does the organization use relevant, quality information (Informa -
tion and Communication) in the component of Risk Assessment? Understanding how 
information is used (or not) is essential for determining whether these two components 
are operating together.
Other examples of components operating together include the following:
 • An entity’s commitment to employing competent resources reduces the risk of 
error in deploying control activities
 • The board of directors’ oversight of internal control reduces the risk of man -
agement override and fraud 
 • An entity’s monitoring activities that evaluate and investigate unexpected 
results mitigate the risk of persistent errors in processing transactions
Components should not be viewed discretely; instead, they must operate together as an 
integrated system. However, in determining whether components operate together, the 
Framework does not allow management to determine that the presence and functioning 
of one component mitigates a major deficiency in another component.
Further, a change in one component should not be viewed in isolation. That is, man -
agement needs to assess the potential effects of a change in one component on 
other components.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
19
91 
92 
93 
94 
95 
96 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
Note that the notion that all five components of internal control must be present and 
functioning and operating together does not mean that each should function identically, 
or even at the same level, within an entity or in different entities. Effective systems of 
internal control can be designed, implemented, and conducted differently. 
Role of Principles 
Principles are fundamental concepts associated with components. As such, the Frame -
work views the seventeen principles as suitable to all entities. Relevance refers to a 
determination that each principle has a significant bearing on the presence and func -
tioning of its associated component.  
The Framework presumes that principles are relevant. However, there may be a rare 
industry, operating, or regulatory situation in which management has determined that a 
principle is not relevant to the associated component. Considerations in applying this 
judgment may include the entity structure recognizing any legal, regulatory, industry, or 
contractual requirements for governance of the entity, and the level of use and depen -
dence on technology used by the entity. 
If management decides that a principle is not relevant, management must support 
that determination, including the rationale of how, in the absence of that principle, the 
associated component could be present and functioning. When a relevant principle is 
deemed not to be present and functioning, a major deficiency exists in the system of 
internal control.
In determining whether a component is present and functioning, senior management 
and the board of directors need to determine to what extent relevant principles are 
present and functioning. However, a principle being present and functioning does not 
imply that the organization strives for the highest level of performance in applying that 
particular principle. Rather, management exercises judgment in balancing the cost and 
benefit of designing, implementing, and conducting internal control.  
Deficiencies in Internal Control 
The term “internal control deficiency” refers to a shortcoming in a relevant principle 
or associated component that has the potential to adversely affect the ability of the 
entity to achieve its objectives. There are many potential sources for identifying inter -
nal control deficiencies, including the entity’s monitoring activities, other components 
of internal control, and external parties that provide input relative to the presence and 
functioning of a component or relevant principle. An internal control deficiency or com -
bination of deficiencies that is severe enough to adversely affect the likelihood that the 
entity can achieve its objectives is referred to as a “major deficiency”. 
When an organization determines that an internal control deficiency or combination of 
deficiencies exists, management uses judgment to assess the severity of that deficiency 
in determining the presence and functioning of the principle, the associated compo -
nent, and ultimately the entity’s system of internal control. Regulators, standard-setting 
bodies, and other relevant third parties may establish criteria for evaluating the severity 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
20
97 
98 
99 
100 
101 
102 
103 Post Public Exposure Version
Effective Internal Control
and corresponding classification and reporting of deficiencies relating to external 
reporting objectives, operations, and compliance objectives. As well, for internal 
reporting and other operations objectives, management and board of directors estab -
lish objective criteria for evaluating internal control deficiencies and reporting to those 
responsible for achieving these objectives. The Framework does not prescribe such cri -
teria, but recognizes and accommodates the authority and responsibility of those other 
parties that interact with the entity to issue such laws, rules, regulations, and standards 
for conducting assessments and classifications. 
In those instances where an entity is applying an external law, rule, regulation, or 
standard, management considers terms relating to internal control deficiencies and 
the unique considerations of those standards. Management also needs to develop an 
understanding of any differences between those laws, rules, regulations, and standards 
when applying the Framework. For instance, regulators prescribe rules for evaluating 
internal control deficiencies relating to external financial reporting and define terms 
describing the severity of such deficiencies, which may include material weakness and 
significant deficiency. For purposes of applying the Framework to external financial 
reporting, management must apply laws, rules, regulations, and standards appropriate 
for the entity in evaluating, classifying, and reporting internal control deficiencies.
Although the organization may rely on an outsourced service provider to conduct pro -
cesses, policies, and procedures on behalf of the entity, management retains ultimate 
responsibility for meeting the requirements set forth in the Framework for an effective 
system of internal control. 
Other parties interacting with the entity, such as external auditors and regulators, are 
not part of the entity’s system of internal control and thus cannot be part of manage -
ment’s assessment process.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
21
104 
105 
106 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
4. Additional Considerations
Judgment
The Framework requires judgment in designing, implementing, and conducting internal 
control and assessing its effectiveness. The use of judgment enhances management’s 
ability to make better decisions about internal control, but cannot guarantee perfect 
outcomes. 
Some of the important areas requiring judgment relate to:
 • Applying internal control components relative to categories of objectives
 • Applying internal control components and principles within the entity structure
 • Specifying suitable objectives and assessing risks
 • Assessing whether components are present and operating together
 • Assessing whether principles are relevant to the entity and whether relevant 
principles are present and functioning
 • Selecting, developing, and deploying controls necessary to effect principles 
 • Assessing the severity of one or more deficiencies in internal control both in 
accordance with the Framework and in connection with applicable laws, rules 
regulations, and standards.
For example, in preparing financial statements, management exercises judgment in 
complying with external financial reporting requirements. Management considers how 
identified risks to specified financial reporting objectives and sub-objectives should 
be managed. Management’s alternatives for responding to risks may be more limited 
compared with some other categories of objectives. That is, management is less likely 
to accept a risk than to reduce the risk. For external financial reporting objectives relat -
ing to published financial statements, risk acceptance or avoidance should occur only 
when identified risks could not, individually or in aggregate, exceed the risk threshold 
and result in a material misstatement. 
Management also exercises judgment in selecting and applying suitable account -
ing principles, particularly those relating to subjective measurements and complex 
transactions. For instance, management exercises judgment in making assumptions 
and using data in developing accounting estimates, in applying accounting principles 
to complex transactions, and in preparing reliable and transparent presentations and 
disclosures. Internal control over external financial reporting addresses the potential 
for bias in exercising judgment that could lead to a material misstatement in external 
financial reporting.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
22
107 
108 
109 
110 Post Public Exposure Version
Additional Considerations
Points of Focus
The Framework describes points of focus that are typically important characteristics of 
principles. Management is expected to obtain persuasive evidence to support its deter -
mination that the components and relevant principles of internal control are present and 
functioning. To that end, points of focus assist management in designing, implement -
ing, and conducting internal control and in assessing whether the relevant principles 
are, in fact, present and functioning. The Framework does not require that management 
assess separately whether points of focus are in place. Instead management considers 
points of focus in connection with its determination of whether principles are present 
and functioning.
In designing and implementing a system of internal control, management may determine 
that some of these characteristics are not suitable or relevant and may identify and con -
sider others that are based on specific circumstances of the entity. 
Management, in its judgment, identifies and considers suitable and relevant points of 
focus, including those presented in the Framework, that reflect the entity’s industry, 
operating, and regulatory environments. Once management has determined which 
points of focus are suitable and relevant for a particular principle, those points of focus 
become important considerations when assessing the presence and functioning of 
a principle.
Points of focus are presented at the beginning of the discussion of the principles within 
each component chapter.
Controls to Effect Principles
Embedded within the internal control process are controls, which consist of policies and 
procedures. These policies reflect management or board statements of what should be 
done to effect control. Procedures are actions that implement policies. Organizations 
select and develop controls within each of the five components to effect relevant prin -
ciples. Controls are interrelated and may support multiple objectives.
The Framework does not prescribe requirements of specific controls that must be 
selected, developed, and deployed for an effective system of internal control. That 
determination is a function of management judgment based on factors unique to each 
entity, such as:
 • Laws, rules, regulations, and standards to which the entity is subject
 • Nature of the entity’s business and the markets in which it operates
 • Scope and nature of the management operating model
 • Competency of the personnel responsible for internal control
 • Use and dependence on technology
 • Management’s response to assessed risks
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
23
111 
112 
113 
114 
115 
116 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
Management considers controls in conjunction with its assessment of components and 
relevant principles. Understanding how controls effect principles through their selection, 
development, and deployment can provide persuasive evidence to support manage -
ment’s assessment of whether the entity’s system of internal control is effective. Further, 
once management has identified controls to effect relevant principles for the entity, the 
absence of or failure to perform one or more such controls would represent a potential 
internal control deficiency. The Framework allows judgment in assessing the potential 
impact of a deficiency on the presence and functioning of a relevant principle. Manage -
ment may consider alternative controls (whether or not associated with that particular 
principle) that compensate for the identified deficiency.
Organizational Boundaries
Many organizations choose to shift some business activities to outside service provid -
ers. This approach has become prevalent because of the benefits of obtaining access 
to low-cost human resources, reducing costs in the day-to-day management of certain 
functions, obtaining access to better processes and systems, and allowing manage -
ment to focus more on the entity’s mission. 
Outsourced service providers can help organizations to perform business processes 
such as procurement, payables management, payroll, pension and benefit manage -
ment, investment management, and stock-based compensation programs. Outside 
service providers may also perform technology activities that support business pro -
cesses, providing services to procure, manage, and maintain previously internally 
managed technology systems. Advances in technology have created cost-savings 
opportunities through access to comprehensive architectures that provide on-demand 
and scalable shared technology that supports more complex and changing business 
operations and that may be cost prohibitive for management as an internal investment. 
This dependence on outsourced service providers changes the risks of business activi -
ties, increases the importance of the quality of information and communications from 
outside the organization, and creates greater challenges in overseeing its activities and 
related internal controls. While management can use others to execute activities and 
controls for or on behalf of the entity, it maintains responsibility for the overall system 
of internal control. For instance, management maintains responsibility for specifying 
objectives, managing associated risks, establishing mechanisms to support the func -
tioning of the components of internal control, and selecting, developing, and deploying 
control activities. 
The Framework can be applied to the entire entity regardless of what choices manage -
ment makes about how it will execute business activities that support its objectives, 
either directly or through external relationships. 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
24
117 
118 
119 
120 
121 Post Public Exposure Version
Additional Considerations
Technology
Technology may be essential to support management’s pursuit of the entity’s objectives 
and to better control the organization’s activities. The number of entities that use tech -
nology continues to grow as does the extent that technology is used in most entities. 
Technology is often referred to by other terms, such as “management information 
systems” or “information technology.” These terms share the ideas of using a combi -
nation of automated and manual processes, and computer hardware and software, 
methodologies, and processes. The Framework uses the term “technology” to refer to 
all computerized systems, including software applications running on a computer and 
operational control systems. 
Technology environments vary significantly in their size, complexity, and extent of 
integration. They range from large, centralized, and integrated systems to decentralized 
systems that operate independently within a specific unit. They may also involve real-
time processing environments that enable immediate access to information, including 
mobile computer applications that can cut across many systems, organizations, and 
geographies. Technology enables organizations to process high volumes of transac -
tions, transform data into information to support sound decision making, share informa -
tion efficiently across the entity and with business partners, and secure confidential 
information from inappropriate use. In addition, technology can allow an entity to share 
operational and performance data with the public.
Technology innovation creates both new opportunities and new risks. It can enable 
the development of new business markets and models, generate efficiencies through 
automation, and enable entities to do things that were previously hard to imagine. It may 
also increase complexity, which makes identifying and managing the risks more difficult. 
The principles presented in the Framework do not change with the application of tech -
nology. This is not to say that technology does not change the internal control land -
scape. Certainly it affects how an entity implements the components of internal control, 
such as the greater availability of information and the use of automated procedures, but 
the principles remain the same.
6  
Larger versus Smaller Entities
The seventeen principles underlying the five components of internal control are just as 
applicable for smaller entities as for larger ones. However, implementation approaches 
may vary for smaller entities, regardless of whether the entity is publicly traded, privately 
held, governmental, or not-for-profit. For example, all public companies have boards 
of directors, or other similar governing bodies, with oversight responsibilities related to 
reporting. A smaller entity may have a less complex organizational structure and opera -
tions, and more frequent communication with directors, enabling a different approach 
to board oversight. Similarly, while many public companies are often required to have a 
whistle-blower program, there may be a difference in the reporting procedures between 
6  Note that as this is a principles-based framework and because technology is continually evolving, the 
Framework does not address specific technologies, such as cloud computing or the rise in social media.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
25
122 
123 
124 
125 
126 
127 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
other types of small and large entities. In a large entity, for example, the volume of 
reported events may require initial reporting to an identified internal staff function, but a 
smaller entity may allow direct reporting to the audit committee chair.
Smaller entities typically have unique advantages, which can contribute to effective 
internal control. These may include a wider span of control by senior management 
and greater direct interaction with personnel. For instance, smaller companies may 
find informal staff meetings highly effective for communicating information relevant to 
operating performance, whereas larger companies may need more formal mechanisms 
such as written reports, intranet portals, periodic formal meetings, or conference calls 
to communicate similar matters.
Conversely, larger entities may enjoy certain economies of scale, which often affect 
support functions. For example, establishing an internal audit function within a smaller, 
domestic entity likely would require a larger percentage of the entity’s economic 
resources than would be the case for a larger, multinational entity. A smaller entity 
may not have an internal audit function or might rely on co-sourcing or outsourcing 
to provide needed skills, where the larger entity’s function might have a significantly 
broader range of experienced in-house personnel. But in all likelihood the relative cost 
for the smaller entity would be higher than for the larger one.
Benefits and Costs of Internal Control
Benefits
Internal control provides many benefits to an entity. It provides management and board 
of directors with added confidence regarding the achievement of objectives, it provides 
feedback on how a business is functioning, and it helps to reduce surprises. Among the 
most significant benefits of effective internal control for many entities is the ability to 
meet certain requirements to access capital markets, providing capital-driven innova -
tion and economic growth. Such access of course comes with responsibilities to effect 
timely and reliable reporting for shareholders, creditors, capital providers, regulators, 
and other third parties with which an entity has direct contractual relationships. For 
instance, effective internal control supports reliable external financial reporting, which in 
turn enhances investor confidence in providing the requisite capital. 
Other benefits of effective internal control include: 
 • Reliable reporting that supports management and board decision making on 
matters such as product pricing, capital investment, and resource deployment 
 • Consistent mechanisms for processing transactions, supporting quality of 
information and communications across an organization, enhancing speed 
and reliability at which transactions are initiated and settled, and providing 
reliable recordkeeping and ongoing integrity of data
 • Increased efficiency within functions and processes
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
26
128 
129 
130 
131 Post Public Exposure Version
Additional Considerations
 • A basis for decisions where highly subjective and substantial judgment 
is needed
 • Ability and confidence to accurately communicate business performance 
with business partners and customers, which supports continuity of the 
business relationship
Entities always have limits on their human and capital resources and constraints on how 
much they can spend, and therefore they will often consider the costs relative to the 
benefits of alternative approaches in managing internal control options. 
Costs
Generally, it is easier to deal with the cost aspect in the cost-benefit equation because 
in most cases financial costs can be quantified fairly precisely. Usually considered are 
all direct costs associated with implementing internal control actions and responses, 
plus indirect costs, where practically measurable. Some entities also include opportu -
nity costs associated with use of resources. 
Overall, management considers a variety of cost factors in relation to expected benefits 
when selecting and developing internal controls. These may include:
 • Considering the trade-offs between recruiting and retaining staff with a 
higher level of competency and the related higher compensation costs. For 
instance, a smaller, stable, privately held company may not want to, or be able 
to, hire a chief financial officer with the experience of working for a publicly 
traded company.
 • Assessing the efforts required to select, develop, and perform control activi
-
ties; the potential incremental efforts that the activity adds to the busi -
ness process; and the efforts to maintain and update the control activity 
when needed.
 • Assessing the impacts of added reliance on technology. While the effort to 
perform the control and the impact of added technology-based controls on 
the business process may be small, the cost associated with selecting, devel
-
oping, maintaining, and updating the technology could be substantial.
 • Understanding how changes in information requirements may call for greater 
data collection, processing, and storage that could trigger exponential growth 
in data volume. With more data available, an organization faces the challenge 
of avoiding information overload by ensuring flow of the right information, in 
the right form, at the right level of detail, to the right people, at the right time. 
Establishing an information system that balances costs and benefits depends 
on thoughtful consideration of information requirements. 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
27
132 
133 
134 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
Other Considerations in Determining Benefits and Costs
The benefit side of the cost-benefit equation often involves even more subjective evalu -
ation. For example, benefits of effective training programs usually are apparent but 
difficult to quantify. Training programs are not often designed to measure the benefits 
or to capture the necessary data to evaluate the program. Sales training programs may 
not be structured to measure before-and-after employee sales results, making it difficult 
to determine whether the training is effective and accomplishing its objectives. Further, 
evaluating the benefits in relation to stakeholder expectations may be more difficult to 
assess. In many cases, however, the benefit of developing actions within any of the five 
components of internal control can be evaluated in the context of the benefit associated 
with achievement of the related objective.
The complexity of cost-benefit determinations is compounded by the interrelationship of 
controls with business operations. Where controls are integrated with management and 
business processes, it is difficult to isolate either their costs or benefits.
It is up to management to decide how an entity evaluates the costs versus benefits of 
alternative approaches to implementing a system of internal control, and what action it 
ultimately takes. However, cost alone is not an acceptable reason to avoid implement -
ing internal controls. The cost versus benefits considerations support management’s 
ability to develop and maintain a system of internal control that balances the allocation 
of human resources in relation to the areas of greatest risk, complexity, or other factors 
relevant to the entity’s objectives. 
Documentation
Entities develop and maintain documentation for their internal control system for a 
number of reasons. One is to provide clarity around roles and responsibilities, which 
promotes consistency in adhering to desired practices in managing the business. 
Effective documentation assists in capturing the design of internal control and com -
municating the who, what, when, where, and why of internal control execution, and 
creates standards and expectations of performance and conduct. Another purpose of 
documentation is to assist in training new personnel and to offer a refresher or refer -
ence for other employees. Documentation also provides evidence of the performance 
of activities that are part of the system of internal control, enables proper monitoring, 
and supports reporting on internal control effectiveness, particularly when evaluated 
by other parties interacting with the entity, such as regulators, auditors, or customers. 
Documentation also provides a means to retain organizational knowledge and mitigate 
the risk of having the knowledge within the minds of a limited number of employees.
Management must also determine how much documentation is needed to assess 
the effectiveness of internal control. Some level of documentation is always neces -
sary to assure management that the components of internal control are in place 
and functioning. This may include, for example, documents showing that all ship -
ments are billed or that periodic reconciliations are performed. Two specific levels of 
documentation requirements must be considered in relation to external financial and 
non-financial reporting:
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
28
135 
136 
137 
138 
139 Post Public Exposure Version
Additional Considerations
 • In cases where management asserts to regulators, shareholders, or other 
third parties on the design and operating effectiveness of its overall system of 
internal control, management has a higher degree of responsibility. Typically, 
this requires documentation to support the assertion that all components 
of internal control are in place and functioning. The nature and extent of the 
documentation may be influenced by the entity’s regulatory requirements. 
This does not necessarily mean that all documentation is or should be more 
formal, but that persuasive evidence to show that the components of internal 
control are present and operating together is available and appropriate to 
satisfy the entity’s objectives. 
 • In cases where an external auditor attests to the effectiveness of the overall 
system of internal control, management will likely be expected to provide the 
auditor with support for its assertion on the effectiveness of internal control. 
That support includes evidence that the system of internal control is properly 
designed and operating effectively to provide reasonable assurance of achiev
-
ing the entity’s objective. In considering the nature and extent of documen -
tation needed, management should remember that the documentation to 
support the assertion will likely be used by the external auditor as part of his 
or her audit evidence. Management would also need to document significant 
judgments, how such decisions were considered, and how the final decisions 
were reached.
There may still be instances where internal control is informal and undocumented. This 
may be appropriate where management is able to obtain evidence captured through 
the normal conduct of the business that indicates personnel regularly performed those 
controls. However, it is important to keep in mind that control processes, such as moni -
toring activities or risk assessments, cannot be performed entirely in the minds of the 
senior management without some documentation of management’s thought process 
and analyses. 
The level and nature of documentation can also vary by the size of the organization and 
the complexity of the control. Larger entities usually have a more extensive system of 
internal control and greater complexity in business processes, and therefore typically 
find it necessary to have more extensive documentation, such as in-depth policy and 
procedure manuals, flowcharts of processes, organizational charts, and job descrip -
tions. Smaller entities often find less need for formal documentation. In smaller compa -
nies, typically there are fewer people and levels of management, closer working rela -
tionships, and more frequent interaction, all of which promote communication of what 
is expected and what is being done. Consequently, management of a smaller entity can 
often determine that controls are functioning through direct observation.  
Documentation of internal control should meet business needs and be commensurate 
with circumstances. The extent of documentation supporting the design and operat -
ing effectiveness of the five components of internal control is a matter of judgment, 
and should be done with cost-effectiveness in mind. In addition, the organization may 
benefit from some form of formal documentation that enables management to reflect on 
the rationale for the judgment and alignment with entity objectives.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
29
140 
141 
142 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
30Post Public Exposure Version
Components of Internal Control | Control Environment
5.  Control Environment
Chapter Summary 
The control environment is the set of standards, processes, and structures 
that provide the basis for carrying out internal control across the organi-
zation. The board of directors and senior management establish the tone 
at the top regarding the importance of internal control including expected 
standards of conduct. Management reinforces expectations at the various 
levels of the organization. The control environment comprises the integrity 
and ethical values of the organization; the parameters enabling the board of 
directors to carry out its oversight responsibilities; the organizational struc-
ture and assignment of authority and responsibility; the process for attract-
ing, developing, and retaining competent individuals; and the rigor around 
performance measures, incentives, and rewards to drive accountability for 
performance. The resulting control environment has a pervasive impact on 
the overall system of internal control. 
Principles relating to the Control Environment component 
1. The organization demonstrates a commitment to integrity and 
ethical values. 
2. The board of directors demonstrates independence from management 
and exercises oversight of the development and performance of 
internal control. 
3. Management establishes, with board oversight, structures, reporting 
lines, and appropriate authorities and responsibilities in the pursuit 
of objectives. 
4. The organization demonstrates a commitment to attract, develop, and 
retain competent individuals in alignment with objectives. 
5. The organization holds individuals accountable for their internal control 
responsibilities in the pursuit of objectives.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
31
143 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
Introduction
The control environment is influenced 
by a variety of internal and external 
factors, including the entity’s history, 
values, market, and the competitive and 
regulatory landscape. It is defined by the 
standards, processes, and structures 
that guide people at all levels in carry -
ing out their responsibilities for internal 
control and making decisions. It creates 
the discipline that supports the assess -
ment of risks to the achievement of the 
entity’s objectives, performance of control 
activities, use of information and com -
munication systems, and conduct of 
monitoring activities. 
An organization that establishes and maintains a strong control environment positions 
itself to be more resilient in the face of internal and external pressures. It does this by 
demonstrating behavior consistent with the organization’s commitment to integrity and 
ethical values, adequate oversight processes and structures, organizational design 
that enables the achievement of the entity’s objectives with appropriate assignment 
of authority and responsibility, a high degree of competence, and a strong sense of 
accountability for the achievement of objectives. 
Organizational culture supports the control environment insofar as it sets expecta -
tions of behavior that reflects a commitment to integrity and ethical values, oversight, 
accountability, and performance evaluation. Establishing a strong culture considers, for 
example, how clearly and consistently ethical and behavioral standards are commu -
nicated and reinforced in practice. As such, culture is part of an organization’s control 
environment, but also encompasses elements of other components of internal control, 
such as policies and procedures, ease of access to information, and responsiveness to 
results of monitoring activities. Therefore culture is influenced by the control environ -
ment and other components of internal control, and vice versa.
Function
Control Environment
Risk Assessment
Control Activities
Information & Communication
Monitoring Activities
Operations
Entity Level
Division
Operating Unit
Reporting Compliance
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
32
144 
145 
146 Post Public Exposure Version
Components of Internal Control | Control Environment
Demonstrates Commitment to Integrity and 
Ethical Values
Principle 1: The organization demonstrates a commitment 
to integrity and ethical values.
Points of Focus
The following points of focus may assist management in determining whether this prin -
ciple is present and functioning:
 • Sets the Tone at the Top—The board of directors and management at all 
levels of the entity demonstrate through their directives, actions, and behavior 
the importance of integrity and ethical values to support the functioning of the 
system of internal control.
 • Establishes Standards of Conduct —The expectations of the board of direc
-
tors and senior management concerning integrity and ethical values are 
defined in the entity’s standards of conduct and understood at all levels of the 
organization and by outsourced service providers and business partners.
 • Evaluates Adherence to Standards of Conduct —Processes are in place 
to evaluate the performance of individuals and teams against the entity’s 
expected standards of conduct.
 • Addresses Deviations in a Timely Manner —Deviations of the entity’s 
expected standards of conduct are identified and remedied in a timely and 
consistent manner.
Tone at the Top and throughout the Organization 
Management and the board of directors or equivalent oversight body are expected to 
lead by example in developing values, a philosophy, and an operating style for the orga -
nization. They take into account the expectations of the entity’s various stakeholders, 
such as employees, suppliers, customers, investors, and the wider community. Further, 
they are influenced by the social and ethical norms in the markets where the entity 
operates. In addition to fostering an understanding and adherence to legal and regula -
tory requirements, management and the board take specific measures to set the tone 
in terms of moral, social, environmental, or other forms of responsible conduct, such as 
greenhouse gas emissions reporting, sustainable production processes, or community 
outreach after natural disasters. The resulting expectations are expressed to varying 
degrees of formality in the form of:
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
33
147 
148 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
 • Mission and values statements
 • Standards or codes of conduct
 • Policies and practices
 • Operating principles
 • Directives, guidelines, and other supporting communications
 • Actions and decisions of management at various levels and the board 
of directors
 • Attitudes and responses to deviations from expected standards of conduct 
 • Informal and routine actions and communication of leaders at all levels of 
the entity 
These elements reflect the expectations of integrity and ethical values and the degree to 
which they are applied in decisions made at all levels of the organization, by outsourced 
service providers, and by business partners (e.g., joint venture partners, strategic alli -
ances). They articulate and reinforce the commitment to doing what is right, not just 
what complies with laws and regulations, so that these priorities are understood and 
embraced by all stakeholders. The degree to which these expectations are not only 
communicated but also applied by senior management and the board as well as all 
other levels of leadership within the organization characterizes the tone at the top and 
throughout the organization.
Tone is impacted by the operating style and personal conduct of management and 
the board of directors, attitudes toward risk, and positions, which may be conserva -
tive or aggressive (e.g., position on estimates, policy choices), degree of formality 
(e.g., in a smaller family business, controls may be more informal), all of which sends a 
message to the organization. Personal indiscretions, lack of receptiveness to bad news, 
or unfairly balanced compensation practices could impact the culture and ultimately 
provide an incentive for inappropriate conduct. In contrast, a history of ethical and 
responsible behavior by management and the board of directors and demonstrated 
commitment to addressing misconduct send strong messages in support of integ -
rity. Employees are likely to develop the same attitudes about right and wrong—and 
about risks and controls—as those shown by management. Individual behavior is often 
influenced by the knowledge that the chief executive officer has behaved ethically when 
faced with a tough business-based or personal decision, and that all managers have 
taken timely action to address misconduct.
The tone must be consistent from senior management through to operating unit 
management levels to ensure that the values, business drivers, and resulting behav -
ior are shared by all employees and partners of the organization. This includes the 
various layers and divisions sometimes referred to as “tone in the middle” in larger 
organizations. Such consistency helps pull the organization together in the pursuit of 
the entity’s objectives. However, challenges to such consistency can arise in various 
forms. For instance, operating in different markets may call for different motivational 
approaches, different degrees of evaluation of suppliers, and different customer service 
levels—creating different tones at different levels of the organization. The messages 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
34
149 
150 
151 Post Public Exposure Version
Components of Internal Control | Control Environment
from management about what is or is not acceptable may vary to impact the intended 
audience, but the more they remain consistent with the tone at the top, the more 
homogenous the performance of internal control responsibilities in the pursuit of the 
entity’s objectives will be. 
In some cases, the tone set by the chief executive may result in unintended conse -
quences. Consider, for example, a management team that readily modifies the entity’s 
standard contractual terms to compete in the local business environment. While such 
modification may be seen as positive for purposes of satisfying customer needs and 
generating revenue—for instance getting products to customers faster—it may be det -
rimental to the achievement of other objectives, such as complying with product safety 
standards, quotas, fair sales practices, or other requirements. Clear guidance and 
direction from the top, as well as congruence across different levels of management, 
are fundamental to the achievement of the entity’s objectives. 
Tone at the top and throughout the organization is fundamental to the functioning of an 
internal control system. Without a strong tone at the top to support a strong culture of 
internal control, awareness of risk can be undermined, responses to risks may be inap -
propriate, control activities may be ill-defined or not followed, information and commu -
nication may falter, and feedback from monitoring activities may not be heard or acted 
upon. Therefore tone can be either a driver or a barrier to internal control.
Standards of Conduct 
Standards of conduct guide the organization in behaviors, activities, and decisions in 
the pursuit of its objectives by:
 • Establishing what is right and wrong 
 • Providing guidance for navigating what lies in between, considering associ -
ated risks
 • Reflecting governing laws, rules, regulations, standards, and other expecta -
tions that the organization’s stakeholders may have, such as corporate social 
responsibility 
Ethical expectations, norms, and customs can vary across borders. Management and 
the board of directors or equivalent oversight body establish the standards and mecha -
nisms for the organization to understand and adhere to doing what is right, and define 
the process and resources for interpreting and addressing the potential for deviations. 
These expectations are translated into an organizational statement of beliefs, values, 
and standards of conduct. 
The organization demonstrates its commitment to integrity and ethical values by apply -
ing the standards of conduct and continually asking challenging questions, particularly 
when faced with difficult decisions. For example, it might ask: Does it infringe on the 
organization’s standards of conduct? Is it legal? Would we want our shareholders, cus -
tomers, regulators, suppliers, or other stakeholders to know about it? Would it reflect 
negatively on the individual or the organization? 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
35
152 
153 
154 
155 
156 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
Integrity and ethical values are core messages in the organization’s communications 
and training. For example, a company that regularly receives awards for “best places to 
work” and achieves high employee retention rates typically provides training on corpo -
rate ethical values and organizational culture, with the support of senior management 
and the board. The training sessions are conducted quarterly or biannually depending 
on the number of new employees hired. During such training, employees learn how the 
ethical climate has developed in the organization. In addition, employees are provided 
with examples of how integrity and ethical values have assisted in identifying issues and 
solving problems and the importance of speaking up and raising concerns. 
The organization’s standards of conduct are continually communicated and reinforced 
not only to all levels of the organization but also to outsourced service providers. For 
example, enforcing internal control for compliance with product safety standards 
extends beyond the entity to include joint venture partners, suppliers, sales distributors, 
and other outsourced service providers at all locations. 
Management retains ultimate accountability for activities it delegates through legal or 
contractual arrangements to outsourced service providers. Variables that can affect 
the extent of communications, oversight, and other activities needed to ensure that 
outsourced service providers and business partners adhere to the entity’s standards of 
conduct include:
 • The nature of services outsourced
 • Extent of alignment of the service provider’s standards of conduct with those 
of the entity
 • Quality and frequency of the service provider’s reinforcement and oversight of 
adherence to standards of conduct by its personnel
 • Magnitude and level of complexity of the entity’s supply chain and 
business model
Inappropriate conduct by outsourced service providers or business partners can 
reflect negatively on senior management and impact the entity itself by causing harm 
to customers, other stakeholders, or the reputation of the organization, requiring costly 
corrective action. Therefore management retains responsibility for the performance of 
processes that it has delegated to outside service providers or business partners.
Adherence and Deviations
The established standards of conduct provide the basis for evaluating adherence to 
integrity and ethical values across the organization and its outsourced service provid -
ers. They are communicated through the organization’s policies and practices, and 
employment or service contracts. Some organizations require formal acknowledgment 
of receipt and compliance with such standards. To gain assurance that the standards 
are being followed in practice, the actions, decisions, and attitudes of individuals are 
evaluated by management or an independent party.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
36
157 
158 
159 
160 
161 Post Public Exposure Version
Components of Internal Control | Control Environment
The lack of adherence to standards of conduct often stems from situations such as:
 • Tone at the top that does not effectively convey expectations regarding adher -
ence to standards
 • A board of directors that does not provide impartial oversight of senior man -
agement’s adherence to standards
 • High decentralization without adequate oversight, leaving senior management 
unaware of actions taken at lower levels
 • Coercion by superiors, peers, or external parties to cut corners or engage in 
fraud or other illicit behavior
 • Performance goals that create incentives or pressures to compromise 
ethical behavior
 • Inadequate vehicles by which employees can safely voice questions 
and concerns
 • Failure to address non-existent or ineffective controls, which allow opportuni
-
ties to conceal poor performance
 • Inadequate process for the investigation and resolution of alleged misconduct
 • A weak internal audit function that does not have the ability to detect and 
report improper conduct
 • Penalties for improper conduct that are inconsistently applied, insignificant, or 
unpublicized and thus lose their deterrent value
For example, standards of conduct may prohibit practices that could be perceived 
as collusion to fix prices, but the organization must establish mechanisms to enforce 
standards, such as awareness communications and training, scanning market pricing 
activity to identify potential issues, and other measures to prevent or detect a deviation 
from the organization’s standards of conduct. The organization communicates estab -
lished tolerance levels for deviations. Depending on the significance of the impact to the 
organization, the level of remedial action may vary but is applied consistently across the 
organization. Evaluations of individual and team adherence to standards of conduct are 
part of a systematic process for escalation and resolution of exceptions. The process 
requires that management:
 • Define a set of indicators (e.g., training completion rates, results of monitoring 
activities, breaches of confidentiality, collusion with other market participants, 
harassment cases) to identify issues and trends related to the standards of 
conduct for the organization, including its outsourced service providers. Such 
indicators are revisited periodically and refined as necessary to help raise 
potential issues early or before they repeat themselves.
 • Establish continual and periodic compliance procedures to confirm that 
expectations and requirements are being met both internally and by out
-
sourced service providers.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
37
162 
163 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
 • Identify, analyze, and report business conduct issues and trends to senior 
management and the board of directors. Mechanisms for identifying issues 
include direct reporting lines, human resource functions, and hotlines. Analy
-
sis often requires cross-functional teams to determine the root cause and 
what corrective actions are needed.
 • Consider the strength of leadership in the demonstration of integrity and 
ethical values as an evaluated behavior in performance reviews, compensa
-
tion, and promotion decisions. 
 • Compile allegations centrally and have these evaluated by individuals inde -
pendent of the allegation.
 • Conduct and document investigations based on defined 
investigation protocols.
 • Follow through on the implementation of corrective actions so that issues are 
remedied in a timely and consistent manner.
 • Periodically analyze of issues to identify trends and root causes, calling for 
modification of policy, communications, training, or controls.
Evaluations may be conducted by an ongoing management process and/or by an inde -
pendent party. Individuals can also assess and report irregularities through formal and 
informal communication channels, such as a whistle-blowing program, an ethics hotline, 
upward feedback processes, and regular staff meetings.
Deviations from expected standards of conduct are addressed in a timely and consis -
tent manner. Depending on the severity of the deviation determined through the evalu -
ation process, management may take different actions and may also need to consider 
local laws, but the standards to which it holds employees remain consistent. Depending 
on the severity of the deviation, the employee may be issued a warning and provided 
coaching, put on probation, or terminated.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
38
164 
165 Post Public Exposure Version
Components of Internal Control | Control Environment
Exercises Oversight Responsibility
Principle 2: The board of directors demonstrates 
independence from management and exercises oversight 
of the development and performance of internal control.
Points of Focus
The following points of focus may assist management in determining whether this prin -
ciple is present and functioning:
 • Establishes Oversight Responsibilities —The board of directors identifies and 
accepts its oversight responsibilities in relation to established requirements 
and expectations. 
 • Applies Relevant Expertise —The board of directors defines, maintains, and 
periodically evaluates the skills and expertise needed among its members to 
enable them to ask probing questions of senior management and take com
-
mensurate actions. 
 • Operates Independently —The board of directors has sufficient members 
who are independent from management and objective in evaluations and 
decision making. 
 • Provides Oversight for the System of Internal Control —The board of direc
-
tors retains oversight responsibility for management’s design, implementation, 
and conduct of internal control: 
 - Control Environment—Establishing integrity and ethical values, oversight 
structures, authority and responsibility, expectations of competence, and 
accountability to the board. 
 - Risk Assessment—Overseeing management’s assessment of risks to the 
achievement of objectives, including the potential impact of significant 
changes, fraud, and management override of internal control.
 - Control Activities—Providing oversight to senior management in the devel
-
opment and performance of control activities. 
 - Information and Communication —Analyzing and discussing information 
relating to the entity’s achievement of objectives. 
 - Monitoring Activities—Assessing and overseeing the nature and scope 
of monitoring activities and management’s evaluation and remediation 
of deficiencies.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
39
166 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
Authorities and Responsibilities
The board of directors or equivalent oversight body understands the business and 
expectations of stakeholders, including customers, employees, investors, and the 
general public, as well as legal and regulatory requirements and related risks. These 
expectations and requirements help shape the objectives of the organization, oversight 
responsibilities of the board, and resource requirements. 
The board has the authority to hire as well as terminate, as necessary, and establish 
succession planning for the chief executive officer or equivalent, who is then charged 
with overall execution of the entity’s strategy, achievement of its objectives, and effec -
tiveness of the system of internal control. The board is responsible for providing over -
sight and constructive challenge to management. 
Depending on the jurisdiction, oversight structures are developed voluntarily or as man -
dated by law, regulation, or standards, such as stock exchange listing standards. While 
requirements for privately owned, not-for-profit, or other entities may vary, publicly listed 
companies in many jurisdictions require committees at the board level to focus on spe -
cialized topics, such as:
 • Nomination/governance committees to lead the selection of directors and 
oversee the evaluation of senior management and the board of directors
 • Compensation committees to oversee policies and practices for senior man
-
agement compensation, motivating expected behaviors, balancing incentives 
for short- and long-term performance, linking performance to strategic objec
-
tives, and relating compensation to risk
 • Audit committees to oversee internal control over financial reporting and the 
integrity and transparency of external reporting, including financial reports 
 • Other committees of the board dedicated to address specific matters that are 
critical to the entity’s objectives (e.g., risk committees for financial services 
institutions or compliance committees for pharmaceutical companies)
Board oversight is supported by structures and processes that management estab -
lishes at a business-execution level. For instance, management committees may focus 
on topics such as information technology, products/services, process, or other aspects 
of the business requiring dedicated focus. Management continually assesses risks 
posed by the changes in the operating environment (e.g., emergence of new technology, 
heightened regulatory requirements, and business model evolution) and addresses the 
implications for the internal control system. 
While the board of directors retains oversight responsibility, the chief executive officer 
and senior management bear direct responsibility for developing and implementing the 
internal control system. Depending on the type of organization and its strategy, struc -
ture, and objectives, operating units may have more or less autonomy designing the 
processes and structures to enable internal control. For example, while one organiza -
tion may implement an enterprise resource planning system that standardizes all major 
processes and controls, another organization may leave it to each division to determine 
and implement those most suitable to its business activities.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
40
167 
168 
169 
170 
171 Post Public Exposure Version
Components of Internal Control | Control Environment
Independence and Relevant Expertise
The board of directors is independent from management and demonstrates relevant 
skills and expertise in carrying out its oversight responsibilities. Independence is 
demonstrated in the board member’s objectivity of mind, action, appearance, and fact. 
Publicly listed companies are typically required to have a majority of its directors be 
independent and with no current or recent personal or professional relationship with the 
entity. (In some jurisdictions, this is also a requirement for all members of some commit -
tees of the board, such as audit committees.) The factor of independence and relevant 
expertise also considers the various board seats held by each of the board members 
to limit any bias or conflict of interest that could result from board members sitting on 
other company boards.
Because a board must be actively engaged at all times and be prepared to question 
and scrutinize management’s activities, present alternative views, and have the courage 
to act in the face of obvious or suspected wrongdoing, it is necessary that the board 
include independent directors. Certainly, officers and employees bring deep knowledge 
of the entity to the table, but independent directors with relevant expertise provide value 
through their impartiality, healthy skepticism, and unbiased evaluation. 
Privately owned, not-for-profit, or other entities may find it costly or otherwise difficult 
to attract competent independent directors. Depending on applicable requirements 
(some may not be required to have a board of directors), it may be incumbent on these 
organizations to identify professional and personal qualities of the candidate important 
to the entity (e.g., understanding of stakeholder perspectives, internal control mindset) 
and establish a board with members who demonstrate these qualities. Those entities 
that are unable to have an independent board recognize this factor and rely on different 
processes and controls that result in adequate oversight of the entity. 
Board composition is determined considering the mission, values, and various objec -
tives of the entity as well as the skills and expertise needed to oversee, probe, and 
evaluate the senior management team most appropriately. The size of the board is 
determined by considering the appropriate number of members to adequately facilitate 
constructive criticisms, discussions, and decision making. Capabilities expected of all 
board members include integrity and ethical standards, leadership, critical thinking, and 
problem-solving. Further, the board is expected to include more specialized skills and 
expertise, with sufficient overlap to enable discussion and deliberation, such as:
 • Internal control mindset (e.g., professional skepticism, perspectives on 
approaches for identifying and responding to risks, and assessing the effec
-
tiveness of the system of internal control)
 • Market and entity knowledge (e.g., knowledge of products/services, value 
chain, customer base, competitors)
 • Financial expertise, including financial reporting (e.g., accounting standards, 
financial reporting requirements)
 • Legal and regulatory expertise (e.g., understanding of governing laws, rules, 
and standards) 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
41
172 
173 
174 
175 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
 • Social and environmental expertise (e.g., understanding of expectations of 
social and environmental expectations and activities) 
 • Incentives and compensation (e.g., knowledge of market compensation rates 
and practices)
 • Relevant systems and technology (e.g., understanding critical systems and 
technology challenges and opportunities)
The expertise and independence of the board of directors are evaluated regularly in 
relation to the evolving needs of the entity. Board members participate in training as 
appropriate to keep their skills and expertise current and relevant. Below is an example 
of the board of directors activities involved in exercising oversight for the develop -
ment and performance of internal control through each of the five components of 
the Framework. 
Internal Control Component Oversight Activities of the Board 
Control Environment  • Oversee the definition of and apply the standards of conduct of the 
organization 
 • Establish the expectations and evaluate the performance of the 
chief executive officer or equivalent role
 • Establish oversight structures and processes aligned with the 
objectives of the entity (e.g., board and committees as appropriate 
with requisite skills and expertise)
 • Commission board oversight effectiveness reviews and addresses 
opportunities for improvement
 • Exercise fiduciary responsibilities to shareholders or other owners 
(as applicable) and due care in oversight (e.g., prepare for and 
attend meetings, review the entity’s financial statements and 
other disclosures) 
 • Challenge senior management by asking probing questions about 
the entity’s plans and performance, and requiring follow-up 
and corrective actions, as necessary (e.g., questioning trans -
actions that occur repeatedly at the end of interim or annual 
reporting periods)
Risk Assessment  • Consider internal and external factors that pose significant risks 
to the achievement of objectives; identify issues and trends (e.g., 
sustainability implications of the entity’s business operations)
 • Discuss management’s assessment of risks to the achievement 
of objectives, including the potential impact of significant changes 
(e.g., risks associated with entering a new market), and fraud 
or corruption
 • Evaluate how proactively the organization manages innovations 
and changes such as those triggered by new technology or eco -
nomic and geopolitical shifts
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
42
176 Post Public Exposure Version
Components of Internal Control | Control Environment
Internal Control Component Oversight Activities of the Board 
Control Activities  • Make specific inquiries of management regarding the selection, 
development, and deployment of control activities in significant 
risk areas and remediation as necessary (e.g., in response to 
significant risks emerging from internal or external factors)
 • Oversee senior management in its performance of 
control activities
Information and Communication  • Communicate direction and tone at the top
 • Obtain, review, and discuss information relating to the entity’s 
achievement of objectives
 • Scrutinize information provided and present alternative views
 • Review disclosures to external stakeholders for completeness, 
relevance, and accuracy
 • Allow for and address upward communication of issues
Monitoring Activities  • Assess and oversee the nature and scope of monitoring activities, 
any management overrides of controls, and management’s evalu -
ation and remediation of deficiencies
 • Evaluate the integrity and ethical values of senior management
 • Engage with management, internal and external auditors, and 
others, as appropriate, to evaluate the level of awareness of the 
entity’s strategies, specified objectives, risks, and control implica -
tions associated with evolving business, infrastructure, regula -
tions, and other factors
Transparency obligations reinforce accountability of both senior management and 
the board of directors. While disclosure requirements and expectations may differ by 
jurisdiction, industry, or otherwise, the board of directors oversees that such needs are 
understood and met over time. Reporting to the board of directors occurs both on a 
regular and ad hoc basis, as needed, to help the board oversee the issues relating to 
the system of internal control.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
43
177 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
Establishes Structure, Authority, and Responsibility
Principle 3: Management establishes, with board 
oversight, structures, reporting lines, and appropriate 
authorities and responsibilities in the pursuit of objectives. 
Points of Focus
The following points of focus may assist management in determining whether this prin -
ciple is present and functioning:
 • Considers All Structures of the Entity —Management and the board of direc -
tors consider the multiple structures used (including operating units, legal 
entities, geographic distribution, and outsourced service providers) to support 
the achievement of objectives. 
 • Establishes Reporting Lines —Management designs and evaluates lines 
of reporting for each entity structure to enable execution of authorities and 
responsibilities and flow of information to manage the activities of the entity.
 • Defines, Assigns, and Limits Authorities and Responsibilities —Management 
and the board of directors delegate authority, define responsibilities, and use 
appropriate processes and technology to assign responsibility and segregate 
duties as necessary at the various levels of the organization:
 - Board of Directors—Retains authority over significant decisions and 
reviews management’s assignments and limitations of authorities and 
responsibilities.
 - Senior Management—Establishes directives, guidance, and control to 
enable management and other personnel to understand and carry out their 
internal control responsibilities.
 - Management—Guides and facilitates the execution of senior management 
directives at entity and its subunits.
 - Personnel—Understands the entity’s standard of conduct, assessed risks 
to objectives, and the related control activities at their respective levels of 
the entity, the expected information and communication flow, and monitor
-
ing activities relevant to their achievement of the objectives.
 - Outsourced Service Providers —Adheres to management’s definition of the 
scope of authority and responsibility for all non-employees engaged. 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
44
178 Post Public Exposure Version
Components of Internal Control | Control Environment
Organizational Structures and Reporting Lines
Senior management and the board of directors establish the organizational structure 
and reporting lines necessary to plan, execute, control, and periodically assess the 
activities of the entity, in other words carry out their oversight responsibilities. They are 
supported by requisite processes and technology to provide for clear accountability and 
information flows within and across the overall entity and its subunits. 
Entities are often structured along various dimensions. In particular:
 • The management operating model may follow product or service lines to facil -
itate development of new products and services, optimize marketing activities, 
rationalize production, and improve customer service or other operational 
aspects.
 • Legal entity structures are often designed to manage business risks, create 
favorable tax structures, and empower managers at foreign operations.
 • Geographic markets may provide for further subdivisions or aggregations 
of performance. 
 • Entities also enter into a variety of relationships with outsourced service 
providers to support the achievement of objectives, which creates additional 
structures and reporting lines. 
Each of these lenses can yield a different evaluation of the system of internal control. 
While the aggregation of risks along one dimension may indicate no issues, the view 
along a different dimension may show concentration risk around certain customer 
types, overreliance on a sole vendor, or other vulnerabilities. Ownership and account -
ability at each level of aggregation enables such multidimensional review and analysis. 
Organizational structures evolve as the nature of the business evolves. Management 
therefore reviews and evaluates the structures for continued relevance and effective -
ness and efficiency in support of the internal control system. Consider, for example, a 
bank that reports performance results and internal control effectiveness by legal entity, 
business unit, or geography. If it does not regularly revisit its reporting to verify that it 
adequately reflects its current business model, it may fail to recognize the emergence of 
certain risks, the absence of appropriate controls, and inadequacy of reporting.
For each type of structure it operates, management designs and evaluates the lines of 
reporting so that responsibilities are carried out and information flows as needed (e.g., 
geographic market structure, business segment structure, legal entity structure). It also 
verifies there is no conflict of interest inherent in the execution of responsibilities across 
the organization and its outsourced service providers. Variables to consider when 
establishing and evaluating organizational structures include the following:
 • Nature, size, and geographic distribution of the entity’s business 
 • Risks related to the entity’s objectives and business processes, which may 
be retained internally or outsourced, and interconnections with outsourced 
service providers and business partners 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
45
179 
180 
181 
182 
183 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
 • Nature of the assignment of authority and responsibility to top, operating unit, 
functional, and geographic management
 • Definition of reporting lines (e.g., direct reporting/“solid line” versus secondary 
report/“dotted line”) and communication channels 
 • Financial, tax, regulatory, and other reporting requirements of 
relevant jurisdictions
Regardless of the organizational structure, definitions, and assignments of author -
ity and responsibility, reporting lines and communication channels must be clear to 
enable accountability over operating units and functional areas. For example, the board 
determines which senior management roles have at least a “dotted line” to the board 
of directors to allow for open communication to the board of all issues of importance. 
Similarly, direct reporting and informational reporting lines are defined at all levels of the 
organization. 
Responsibilities can generally be viewed as falling within three lines of defense against 
the failure to achieve the entity’s objectives, with oversight by the board of directors: 
 • Management and other personnel on the front line provide the first line of 
defense in day-to-day activities. They are responsible for maintaining effective 
internal control day to day; they are compensated based on performance in 
relation to all applicable objectives.
 • Business-enabling functions (also referred to as support functions) provide 
guidance on internal control requirements and evaluating adherence to 
defined standards; while they are functionally aligned to the business, their 
compensation is not directly tied to performance of the area to which they 
render expert.
 • Internal auditors provide the third line of defense in assessing and reporting 
on internal control and recommending corrective actions or enhancements for 
management consideration and implementation; their position and compen
-
sation are separate and distinct from the business areas they review. 
Periodic evaluation of existing structures in relation to the achievement of the entity’s 
objectives enables realignment with emerging priorities (e.g., new regulations) and ratio -
nalization (e.g., cutting across silos of different functions or operating units) to provide 
for a comprehensive and integrated view of internal control.
Authorities and Responsibilities
The board of directors delegates authority and defines and assigns responsibility for 
senior management. In turn, senior management delegates authority and defines and 
assigns responsibility at the overall entity and its subunits. Authority and responsibil -
ity are delegated based on demonstrated competence, and roles are defined based on 
who is responsible for or kept informed of decisions. The board and/or senior manage -
ment define the degree to which individuals and teams are authorized and encouraged, 
or limited, to pursue achievement of objectives or address issues as they arise. 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
46
184 
185 
186 
187 Post Public Exposure Version
Components of Internal Control | Control Environment
Key roles and responsibilities assigned across the organization typically include 
the following: 
 • The board of directors stays informed and challenges senior management as 
necessary to provide guidance on significant decisions.
 • Senior management, which includes the chief executive officer or equivalent 
organizational leader and senior management team, is ultimately responsible 
to the board of directors and other stakeholders for establishing directives, 
guidance, and control to enable management and other personnel to under
-
stand and carry out their responsibilities. 
 • Management, which includes supervisors and decision-makers, executes 
senior management directives at the entity and its subunits. 
 • Personnel, which includes all employees of the entity, are expected to under
-
stand the entity’s standards of conduct, objectives as defined in relation to 
their area of responsibility, assessed risks to those objectives, related control 
activities at their respective levels of the entity, information, and communica
-
tion flow, and any monitoring activities relevant to achieving objectives. 
 • The organization provides personnel with direct responsibility over outsourced 
processes conducted by service providers. Outsourced service providers 
are provided with clear and concise contractual terms related to the entity’s 
objectives and expectations of conduct and performance, competence levels, 
expected information, and communication flow. They may execute business 
processes on behalf of or together with management, who remains respon
-
sible for internal control.
Organizations delegate authority and responsibility to enable management and other 
personnel to make decisions according to management’s directives toward the achieve -
ment of the entity’s objectives. An organization may define or revisit its structures by 
reducing layers of management, delegating more authority and responsibility to lower 
levels, or partnering with other organizations. For example, a sales organization may 
empower its managers to sell at a greater discount to gain market share. However, the 
authority and responsibility would be delegated only to those who demonstrate the 
competence to make adequate decisions, consistently adhere to the entity’s stan -
dards of conduct, policies and procedures, and understand the consequences of the 
risks they take. 
Delegation of authority provides for greater agility, but it also increases the complexity 
of risks to be managed. Senior management, with guidance from the board of directors, 
provides the basis for determining what is or is not acceptable, such as non-compliance 
with the organization’s regulatory or contractual obligations.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
47
188 
189 
190 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
Limitation of Authority 
Delegating authority empowers people to act as needed in a given role, but it is also 
necessary to outline the limitations of authority. Authority is limited as necessary 
so that:
 • Delegation occurs only to the extent required to achieve the entity’s objectives 
(e.g., review and approval of new products involves the requisite business and 
support functions, separate from the sales execution team).
 • Decision making is based on sound practices for identifying and assessing 
risks (e.g., sizing risks and weighing potential losses versus gains in determin
-
ing which risks to accept and how they are to be managed).
 • Duties are segregated to reduce the risk of inappropriate conduct in the 
pursuit of objectives, and requisite checks and balances occur from the 
highest to the lowest levels of the organization (e.g., defining roles, respon
-
sibilities, and performance measures in a manner to reduce any potential for 
conflicts of interest).
 • Technology is leveraged as appropriate to facilitate the definition and limita
-
tion of roles and responsibilities within the workflow of business processes 
(e.g., different access levels to enterprise resource planning systems at cor
-
porate and subsidiary levels, access privileges granted to on-line customers, 
business partners, and others).
 • Third-party service providers who are tasked with carrying out activities on 
behalf of an entity understand the extent of their decision-making capabilities.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
48
191 Post Public Exposure Version
Components of Internal Control | Control Environment
Demonstrates Commitment to Competence 
Principle 4: The organization demonstrates a commitment 
to attract, develop, and retain competent individuals in 
alignment with objectives. 
Points of Focus
The following points of focus may assist management in determining whether this prin -
ciple is present and functioning:
 • Establishes Policies and Practices —Policies and practices reflect expecta -
tions of competence necessary to support the achievement of objectives.
 • Evaluates Competence and Addresses Shortcomings —The board of direc-
tors and management evaluate competence across the organization and in 
outsourced service providers in relation to established policies and practices, 
and acts, as necessary to address shortcomings.
 • Attracts, Develops, and Retains Individuals —The organization provides 
the mentoring and training needed to attract, develop, and retain sufficient 
and competent personnel and outsourced service providers to support the 
achievement of objectives.
 • Plans and Prepares for Succession —Senior management and the board of 
directors develop contingency plans for assignments of responsibility impor
-
tant for internal control.
Policies and Practices
Policies and practices are the entity-level guidance and behavior that reflect the 
expectations and requirements of investors, regulators, and other stakeholders. They 
provide the foundation for defining the competence needed within the organiza -
tion and provide the basis for more detailed procedures for executing and evaluating 
performance as well as determining remedial actions, as necessary. Such policies and 
practices provide:
 • Requirements and rationale (e.g., implications of product safety laws, rules, 
regulations, and standards for the entity)
 • Skills and conduct necessary to support internal control in the achievement of 
the entity’s objectives (e.g., knowledge of the operation of technology plat
-
forms underpinning business processes)
 • Defined accountability for performance of key business functions (e.g., 
defined owners of product safety and areas of applicability within the 
organization)
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
49
192 
193 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
 • Basis for evaluating shortcomings and defining remedial actions, as neces -
sary (e.g., correcting a process or strengthening the skills of management and 
other personnel)
 • Means to react dynamically to change (e.g., linkage to applicable operating 
procedures to reflect new regulatory requirements, new risks identified, or 
internal decision to modify business processes)
Policies and practices enable the focus on competence to permeate the organiza -
tion, starting with the board of directors relative to the chief executive officer, the chief 
executive officer relative to senior management, and cascading down to various levels 
of management. The resulting commitment to competence facilitates measuring the 
achievement of objectives at all levels of the organization and by outsourced service 
providers by establishing how processes should be carried out and what skills and 
behavior should be applied. 
Commitment to Competence 
Competence is the qualification to carry out assigned responsibilities. It requires rel -
evant skills and expertise, which are gained largely from professional experience, train -
ing, and certifications. It is expressed in the attitude and behavior of individuals as they 
carry out their responsibilities. 
The human resources function of an organization can often help define competence and 
staffing levels by job role, facilitating training and maintaining completion records, and 
evaluating the relevance and adequacy of individual professional development in rela -
tion to the entity’s needs. 
The organization defines competence requirements as needed to support the achieve -
ment of objectives, considering, for instance:
 • Knowledge, skills, and experience needed
 • Nature and degree of judgment and limitations of authority to be applied to a 
specific position
 • Cost-benefit analysis of different levels of skills and experience 
The board of directors evaluates the competence of the chief executive officer and, 
in turn, management evaluates competence across the organization and outsourced 
service providers in relation to established policies and practices, and then acts as 
necessary to address any shortcomings or excesses. In particular, a changing risk 
profile may cause the organization to shift resources toward areas of the business that 
require greater attention. For example, as a company brings a new product to market, it 
may elect to increase staffing in its sales and marketing teams, or as a new applicable 
regulation is issued, it may focus on those individuals responsible for implementa-
tion. Shortcomings may arise relating to staffing levels, expertise, or a combination of 
factors. Management is responsible for acting on such shortcomings in a timely manner.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
50
194 
195 
196 
197 
198 Post Public Exposure Version
Components of Internal Control | Control Environment
Attracting, Developing, and Retaining Individuals
The commitment to competence is supported by and embedded in the human resource 
management processes for attracting developing, evaluating, and retaining the right 
fit of management, other personnel, and outsourced service providers. The adequate 
number of resources is determined and periodically readjusted considering the relative 
importance of risks to be mitigated to support the achievement of the entity’s objec -
tives. Management at different levels establishes the structures, and processes to:
 • Attract—Conduct formal, in-depth employment interviews to describe the 
entity’s history, culture, and operating style, run background/reference 
checks, and conduct procedures to determine whether a particular can
-
didate fits with the organizational needs and has the competence for the 
proposed role.
 • Train—Enable individuals to develop competencies appropriate for assigned 
roles and responsibilities, reinforce standards of conduct and expected levels 
of competence for particular assignments, tailor training based on roles 
and needs, and consider a mix of delivery techniques, including classroom 
instruction, self-study, and on-the-job training.
 • Mentor—Provide guidance on the individual’s performance toward expected 
standards of conduct and competence, align the individual’s skills and 
expertise with the entity’s objectives, and help personnel adapt to an 
evolving environment.
 • Evaluate—Measure the performance of individuals in relation to the achieve
-
ment of objectives and demonstration of expected conduct, and against 
service-level agreements or other agreed-upon standards for recruiting and 
compensating outsourced service providers.
 • Retain—Provide incentives to motivate and reinforce expected levels of 
performance and desired conduct, including training and credentialing 
as appropriate.
Through this process, any behavior not consistent with standards of conduct, policies 
and practices, and internal control responsibilities is identified, assessed, and corrected 
in a timely manner or otherwise addressed at all levels of the organization. This enables 
the organization to actively address competence to support the achievement of the 
entity’s objectives considering costs and benefits.
Plans and Prepares for Succession
Management continually identifies and assesses those performing functions that are 
deemed essential to achieving the entity’s objectives. The importance of each role is 
determined by assessing what the impact would be if that role was temporarily or per -
manently unfilled. For instance, the chief executive officer and other members of senior 
management, strategic suppliers, and key channel partners are functions that typically 
require plans to be put in place to make sure those objectives can still be achieved, 
even in the absence of the individual filling the role. 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
51
199 
200 
201 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
Senior management and the board of directors develop contingency plans for assign -
ing responsibilities important to internal control. In particular, succession plans for key 
executives are defined, and succession candidates are trained and coached for assum -
ing the target role.
Succession planning is also undertaken when significant functions are delegated 
through contractual arrangements to outsourced service providers. Where an orga-
nization places considerable reliance on an external party and the organization has 
assessed the risk of that provider’s processes or systems breaking down as having a 
direct impact on the entity’s ability to achieve its objectives, some form of succession 
plan may be needed. Measures to provide for ongoing knowledge sharing and docu -
mentation ease the succession to a new provider when necessary. 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
52
202 
203 Post Public Exposure Version
Components of Internal Control | Control Environment
Enforces Accountability
Principle 5: The organization holds individuals 
accountable for their internal control responsibilities in the 
pursuit of objectives.
Points of Focus
The following points of focus may assist management in determining whether this prin -
ciple is present and functioning:
 • Enforces Accountability through Structures, Authorities, and Responsibili -
ties—Management and the board of directors establish the mechanisms to 
communicate and hold individuals accountable for performance of internal 
control responsibilities across the organization and implement corrective 
action as necessary.
 • Establishes Performance Measures, Incentives, and Rewards —Manage
-
ment and the board of directors establish performance measures, incentives, 
and other rewards appropriate for responsibilities at all levels of the entity, 
reflecting appropriate dimensions of performance and expected stan
-
dards of conduct, and considering the achievement of both short-term and 
longer-term objectives. 
 • Evaluates Performance Measures, Incentives, and Rewards for Ongoing 
Relevance—Management and the board of directors align incentives and 
rewards with the fulfillment of internal control responsibilities in the achieve
-
ment of objectives.
 • Considers Excessive Pressures —Management and the board of directors 
evaluate and adjust pressures associated with the achievement of objec -
tives as they assign responsibilities, develop performance measures, and 
evaluate performance. 
 • Evaluates Performance and Rewards or Disciplines Individuals —Manage
-
ment and the board of directors evaluate performance of internal control 
responsibilities, including adherence to standards of conduct and expected 
levels of competence and provide rewards or exercise disciplinary action 
as appropriate. 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
53
204 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
Accountability for Internal Control 
The board of directors ultimately holds the chief executive officer accountable for 
understanding the risks faced by the entity and establishing the requisite system of 
internal control to support the achievement of the entity’s objectives. The CEO and 
senior management, in turn, are responsible for designing, implementing, conducting, 
and periodically assessing the structures, authorities, and responsibilities needed to 
establish accountability for internal control at all levels of the organization. 
Accountability refers to the delegated ownership for the performance of internal control 
in the pursuit of objectives considering the risks faced by the entity. Outsourced service 
providers may be used to carry out responsibilities together with or on behalf of man -
agement, in which case management establishes the requisite levels of performance 
and oversight mechanisms and retains ultimate accountability for internal control. Man -
agement provides guidance to enable the understanding of risks faced by the entity, to 
communicate expectations of conduct of internal control responsibilities in support of 
the achievement of the entity’s objectives, and to hold personnel accountable.
Accountability for internal control is demonstrated in each form of organizational struc -
ture used by the entity. For example, a manager whose responsibilities include uphold -
ing fair trade practices is accountable to the legal entity, operating unit, geography, 
or other existing structural entity to demonstrate an appropriate and effective control 
environment, risk assessment, control activities, information and communication, and 
monitoring to adhere to entity policy and support compliance with laws and regulations. 
Accountability is interconnected with leadership, insofar as a strong tone at the top con -
tributes to internal control responsibilities being understood, carried out, and continu -
ally strengthened across the entity. Tone helps to establish and enforce accountability, 
morale, and a common purpose through:
 • Clarity of expectations from senior management and the board of directors, 
addressing issues such as integrity and ethics, conflict of interest, illegal or 
otherwise improper activities, and anticompetitive arrangements (e.g., a code 
of conduct is developed and communicated to all employees and outsourced 
service providers, and enforced)
 • Guidance provided by management through its philosophy and operating 
style, as expressed in the form of state of mind, formality, persistence and 
other attitudes of management toward internal control (e.g., an entity that 
has been successful taking significant risks may have a different outlook on 
internal control than one that has faced harsh economic or regulatory conse
-
quences as a result of venturing into higher-risk areas) 
 • Control and information flow (e.g., communicating how decisions are made 
and, soliciting and acting on 360-degree feedback on performance) 
 • Upward and other communication channels for employees and outsourced 
service providers to feel comfortable reporting violations of ethical standards 
(e.g., anonymous or confidential communication channels are made available)
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
54
205 
206 
207 
208 Post Public Exposure Version
Components of Internal Control | Control Environment
 • Employee commitment toward collective objectives (e.g., alignment of indi -
vidual goals and performance with the entity’s objectives)
 • Management’s response to deviations from expected standards and behav -
iors (e.g., notices, terminations, and/or other corrective actions that ensue 
from failing to adhere to organizational standards, performance evaluation, 
and reward structures are commensurate with the achievement of the organi
-
zation’s objectives)
Accountability is driven by tone at the top and supported by the commitment to integrity 
and ethical values, competence, structure, processes, and technology, which col -
lectively influence the control culture of the organization. Corrective action is taken as 
necessary to re-establish the necessary accountability for internal control.
Performance Measures, Incentives, and Rewards
Performance is greatly influenced by the extent to which individuals are held account -
able and how they are rewarded. 
Management and the board of directors establish performance measures, incentives, 
and other rewards appropriate for responsibilities at all levels of the entity, consider -
ing the achievement of both short-term and longer-term objectives. Recognizing that 
rewarding future results in the present can yield unintended consequences, the organi -
zation establishes a combination of quantitative and qualitative performance measures 
balanced to reward successes and discipline behaviors as necessary in line with the 
range of objectives. Consider for example a company seeking to win customer loyalty 
with quality products. It engages its workforce in an effort to reduce production defect 
rates and aligns its performance measures, incentives, and rewards with both the 
operating unit’s production goals and the expectations to comply with product safety 
and quality standards, workplace safety laws, customer loyalty programs, and accurate 
performance product data-reporting requirements.
Performance measures, incentives, and rewards support an effective system of internal 
control insofar as they are adapted to the entity’s objectives and evolve dynamically 
with its needs. The following table illustrates key success measures and considerations 
for motivating, measuring and rewarding high performance.
Success Measures Considerations
Clear Objectives  • Consider all levels of personnel to support the achievement of the 
entity’s objectives. 
 • Consider the multiple dimensions of expected conduct and 
performance of the organization, outsourced service providers 
and business partners (e.g., per service-level agreements), define 
objectives and related incentives and pressures. 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
55
209 
210 
211 
212 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
Success Measures Considerations
Defined Implications  • Communicate/reinforce the entity’s objectives and how each area 
and level of the organization is expected to support the achieve -
ment of objectives.
 • Identify and discuss events that the market has rewarded in the 
past and those that the market has punished.
 • Communicate consequences (positive and negative) of not achiev -
ing or fully/partially achieving specific entity objectives.
Meaningful Metrics  • Define metrics to transform disparate data into meaningful infor -
mation on performance.
 • Measure expected versus actual conduct and the impact of the 
deviations, both positive and negative.
 • Assess the expected impact on the entity’s objectives.
Adjustment to Changes  • Adjust performance measures regularly based on a systematic and 
continual evaluation of the potential impacts of risks as they evolve 
over time, as well as the quantification of the associated rewards.
Incentives provide the motivation for management and other personnel to perform. 
Salary increases and bonuses are commonly used, but greater responsibility, visibility, 
recognition, and other forms of non-monetary reward are other effective incentives. 
Management consistently applies and regularly reviews the organization’s measurement 
and reward structures to ensure that they do not encourage inappropriate conduct (e.g., 
lack of balance between revenue goals and other objectives key to the viability of the 
business can create conduct that is not in line with expected standards). Similarly, com -
pensation and reward structures, including hiring and promotion structures, incorporate 
the review of historical conduct against expectations of ethical behavior. Individuals who 
do not adhere to the entity’s standards of conduct are sanctioned and not promoted or 
otherwise rewarded.
Regardless of the form they take, incentives drive behavior. An entity that limits its focus 
to only increasing the bottom line may be more likely to experience unwanted behavior 
such as manipulation of the financial statements or accounting records, high-pressure 
sales tactics, negotiations directed at increasing quarterly sales or profit at any cost, or 
implicit offers of kickbacks. 
Management and the board regularly evaluate the performance of individuals and teams 
in relation to defined performance measures, which include business performance 
factors as well as adherence and support for standards of conduct and demonstrated 
competence. 
Performance measures are reviewed periodically for ongoing relevance and adequacy in 
relation to incentives and rewards. If necessary, internal or external factors are realigned 
to objectives and other expectations of management, personnel, and outside providers.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
56
213 
214 
215 
216 Post Public Exposure Version
Components of Internal Control | Control Environment
Pressures
Management and the board of directors establish goals and targets toward the achieve -
ment of objectives that by their nature create pressures within the organization. Pres -
sures can also result from cyclical variations of certain activities, which organizations 
have the ability to influence by rebalancing workloads or increasing resource levels, as 
appropriate, to reduce the risk of employees “cutting corners” where it could be detri -
mental to the achievement of objectives. 
These pressures which are further impacted by the internal or external environment can 
positively motivate individuals to meet expectations of conduct and performance, both 
in the short and long term. However, undue pressures can cause employees to fear 
the consequences of not achieving objectives and circumvent processes or engage in 
fraudulent activity or corruption. 
Excessive pressures are most commonly associated with:
 • Unrealistic performance targets, particularly for short-term results
 • Conflicting objectives of different stakeholders 
 • Imbalance between rewards for short-term financial performance and those 
for long-term focused stakeholders, such as corporate sustainability goals 
For example, pressure to generate sales levels that are not commensurate with market 
opportunities can lead sales managers to falsify numbers or engage in bribery or other 
illicit acts. Pressures to demonstrate the profitability of investments can cause traders 
to take off-strategy risks to cover incurred losses. Similarly, pressures to rush a product 
to market and generate revenues quickly may cause personnel to take shortcuts on 
product development or safety testing, which can be harmful to consumers or lead to 
poor acceptance or impaired reputation. 
To align individual and business unit objectives to those of the entity, the organization 
considers how risks are taken and managed as a basis for compensation and other 
rewards. For example, as traders take risks on behalf of their clients and the orga -
nization, they are aware that their remuneration, advancement, and position can be 
boosted, reduced, or lost depending on their performance. Incentive structures that fail 
to adequately consider the risks associated with the business model can cause inap -
propriate behavior.
Other business changes, such as changes in strategy, organizational design, and acqui -
sition/divestiture activity, also create pressures. Management and the board need to 
understand those pressures and balance them with appropriate messaging and incen -
tives/rewards. Management and the board set and adjust as appropriate the pressures 
on incentives and rewards when assigning responsibilities, designing performance 
measures, and evaluating performance. It is management’s responsibility to guide those 
to whom they have delegated authority to make appropriate decisions in the course of 
doing business. For example, organizations often view financial performance, devel -
opment of competencies, and timely and accurate reporting to stakeholders as their 
most critical objectives for the viability of the business. They also expect management, 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
57
217 
218 
219 
220 
221 
222 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
other personnel, and outsourced service providers and business partners to preserve 
at all times the quality of products or services delivered, safety of personnel perform -
ing its functions, and other factors that could create a moral hazard or damage the 
entity’s reputation.
Performance Evaluation and Reward
Just as performance objectives are cascaded down from the board of directors to 
the chief executive officer, senior management, and other personnel, performance 
evaluation is conducted at each of these levels. The board of directors evaluates the 
performance of the CEO, who in turn evaluates that of the senior management team, 
and so on. At each level, adherence to standards of conduct and expected levels of 
competence is evaluated, and rewards are allocated or disciplinary action is exercised 
as appropriate. Rewards may be in the form of money, equity, recognition, or career 
progression. The results of these evaluations are communicated and acted upon with 
rewards or sanctions as applicable to influence desired behavior.
Compensation policies and practices are based on the compensation philosophy of the 
organization, which considers the competitive positioning it seeks to achieve (methods 
and levels of incentive and compensation to attract the highest caliber talent needed 
to be superior to offers from industry peers). Compensation and other rewards are 
awarded on the basis of performance evaluation, competencies, and skill acquisition, 
as well as available market pricing information, with the goal of retaining high perform -
ers and encouraging attrition of lower-end performers. Human resources manages the 
process of obtaining, processing, and communicating the relevant information to appro -
priate levels of management and other personnel. 
Performance is measured in relation to the achievement of objectives and the ability to 
manage within risk tolerance levels considering both the short and long term. As such, it 
considers both historical (retrospective) and forward-looking (prospective) risks. 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
58
223 
224 
225 Post Public Exposure Version
Components of Internal Control | Risk Assessment
Chapter Summary 
Every entity faces a variety of risks from external and internal sources. Risk 
is defined as the possibility that an event will occur and adversely affect 
the achievement of objectives. Risk assessment involves a dynamic and 
iterative process for identifying and assessing risks to the achievement 
of objectives. Risks to the achievement of these objectives from across 
the entity are considered relative to established risk tolerances. Thus, risk 
assessment forms the basis for determining how risks will be managed. 
A precondition to risk assessment is the establishment of objectives, 
linked at different levels of the entity. Management specifies objectives 
within categories relating to operations, reporting, and compliance 
with sufficient clarity to be able to identify and analyze risks to those 
objectives. Management also considers the suitability of the objectives 
for the entity. Risk assessment also requires management to consider 
the impact of possible changes in the external environment and within its 
own business model that may render internal control ineffective.
Principles relating to the Risk Assessment component 
6. The organization specifies objectives with sufficient clarity to enable 
the identification and assessment of risks relating to objectives. 
7. The organization identifies risks to the achievement of its objectives 
across the entity and analyzes risks as a basis for determining how 
the risks should be managed.
8. The organization considers the potential for fraud in assessing risks 
to the achievement of objectives.
9. The organization identifies and assesses changes that could 
significantly impact the system of internal control.
6.  Risk Assessment
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
59
226 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
Introduction
All entities, regardless of size, struc -
ture, nature, or industry, encounter 
risks at all levels. Risk is defined in the 
Framework as the possibility that an 
event will occur and adversely affect 
the achievement of objectives. 
The use of the term “adversely” in 
this definition does not ignore positive 
variances relating to an event or series 
of events. Large positive variances 
may still create adverse impacts to 
objectives. For instance, consider a 
company that forecasts sales of 1,000 
units and sets production schedules 
to achieve this expected demand. 
Management considers the possibility 
that actual orders will exceed this forecast. Actual orders of 1,500 units would likely not 
impact the sales objectives but might adversely impact production costs (through incre -
mental overtime needed to meet increased volumes) or customer satisfaction targets 
(through increased back orders and wait times). Consequently, selling more units than 
planned may adversely impact objectives other than the sales objective. 
As part of the process of identifying and assessing risks, an organization may also 
identify opportunities, which are the possibility that an event will occur and positively 
affect the achievement of objectives. These opportunities are important to capture and 
to communicate to the objective-setting processes. For instance, in the above example, 
management would channel new sales opportunities to the objective-setting processes. 
However, identifying and assessing potential opportunities such as new sales opportu -
nities is not a part of internal control. 
Risks affect an entity’s ability to succeed, compete within its industry, maintain its 
financial strength and positive reputation, and maintain the overall quality of its prod -
ucts, services, and people. There is no practical way to reduce risk to zero. Indeed, the 
decision to be in business incurs risk. Management must determine how much risk is to 
be prudently accepted, strive to maintain risk within these levels, and understand how 
much tolerance it has for exceeding its target risk levels.
Risk often increases when objectives differ from past performance and when manage -
ment implements change. An entity often does not set explicit objectives when it con -
siders its performance to be acceptable. For example, an entity might view its historical 
service to customers as acceptable and therefore not set specific goals on maintaining 
current levels of service. However, as part of the risk assessment process, the organiza -
tion does need to have a common understanding of entity-level objectives relevant to 
operations, reporting, and compliance and how those cascade into the organization.
Function
Control Environment
Risk Assessment
Control Activities
Information & Communication
Monitoring Activities
Operations
Entity Level
Division
Operating Unit
Reporting Compliance
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
60
227 
228 
229 
230 
231 Post Public Exposure Version
Components of Internal Control | Risk Assessment
Risk Tolerance
Risk tolerance is the acceptable level of variation in performance relative to the achieve -
ment of objectives. Operating within risk tolerance provides management with greater 
confidence that the entity will achieve its objectives. Risk tolerance may be expressed 
in different ways to suit each category of objectives. For instance, when considering 
financial reporting, risk tolerance is typically expressed in terms of materiality,
7 whereas 
for compliance and operations, risk tolerance is often expressed in terms of the accept -
able level of variation in performance.
Risk tolerance is normally determined as part of the objective-setting process, and as 
with setting objectives, setting tolerance levels is a precondition for determining risk 
responses and related control activities. Management may exercise significant discre -
tion in setting risk tolerance and managing risks when there are no external require -
ments. However, when there are external requirements, such as those relating to exter -
nal reporting and compliance objectives, management considers risk tolerance within 
the context of established laws, rules, regulations, and external standards.
As well, senior management considers the relative importance of the competing objec -
tives and differing priorities for pursuing these objectives. For instance, a chief operat -
ing officer may view operations objectives as requiring a higher level of precision than 
materiality considerations in reporting objectives, and vice versa for the chief financial 
officer. However, it would be problematic for public companies to overemphasize opera -
tional objectives to an extent that adversely impacts the reliability of financial report -
ing. These views are considered as part of the strategic-planning and objective-setting 
process with tolerances set accordingly. This kind of decision may also impact the level 
of resources allocated to pursuing the achievement of those respective objectives. 
Performance measures are used to help an entity operate within established risk toler -
ance. Risk tolerance is often best measured in the same unit as the related objectives. 
For example, an entity: 
 • Targets on-time delivery at 98%, with acceptable variation in the range of 97% 
to 100%
 • Targets training with 90% of those taking the training attaining a pass rate, but 
accepts that only 75% of those taking the test may pass
 • Expects staff to respond to all customer complaints within twenty-four hours, 
but accepts that up to 10% of complaints may receive a response within 
thirty-six hours
7 Regulators and standard-setting bodies define the term “materiality.” Management develops an under-
standing of materiality as defined by laws, rules, and standards when applying the Framework in the 
context of such laws, rules, and standards.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
61
232 
233 
234 
235 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
Specifies Suitable Objectives
Principle 6: The organization specifies objectives 
with sufficient clarity to enable the identification and 
assessment of risks relating to objectives.
A precondition to risk assessment is the establishment of objectives, linked at various 
levels of the entity. These objectives align with and support the entity in the pursuit of 
its strategic direction. While setting strategies and objectives is not part of the internal 
control process, objectives form the basis on which risk assessment approaches are 
implemented and performed and subsequent control activities are established. As part 
of internal control, management specifies objectives and groups them within broad cat -
egories at all levels of the entity, relating to operations, reporting, and compliance. The 
grouping of objectives within these categories allows for the risks to the achievement of 
those objectives to be identified and assessed. 
In considering the suitability of objectives, management may consider such matters as:
 • Alignment between established objectives and strategic priorities
 • Articulation of risk tolerances for objectives
 • Alignment between established objectives and established laws, rules, regula -
tions, and standards applicable to the entity
 • Articulation of objectives using terms that are specific, measurable or observ -
able, attainable, relevant, and time-bound
 • Cascading of objectives across the entity and it subunits
 • Alignment of objectives to other circumstances that require specific focus by 
the entity
 • Approval objectives within the objective-setting process
Where objectives within these categories are unclear, where it is unclear how these 
objectives support the strategic direction, or where there are concerns that the objec -
tives are not suitable based on the facts, circumstances, and established laws, rules, 
regulations, and standards applicable to the entity, management communicates this 
concern for input to the strategy-setting and objective-setting process. 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
62
236 
237 
238 Post Public Exposure Version
Components of Internal Control | Risk Assessment
Operations Objectives
Points of Focus
The following points of focus may assist management in determining whether this prin -
ciple is present and functioning as it relates to operations objectives:
 • Reflects Management’s Choices —Operations objectives reflect manage -
ment’s choices about structure, industry considerations, and performance of 
the entity. 
 • Considers Tolerances for Risk—Management considers the acceptable levels 
of variation relative to the achievement of operations objectives.
 • Includes Operations and Financial Performance Goals —The organization 
reflects the desired level of operations and financial performance for the entity 
within operations objectives.
 • Forms a Basis for Committing of Resources —Management uses operations 
objectives as a basis for allocating resources needed to attain desired opera
-
tions and financial performance. 
Management Choices
Operations objectives reflect management choices within the particular business, 
industry, and economic environments in which the entity functions. For instance, a 
municipal government sets out several operations objectives, each supported by initia -
tives and criteria. Among its objectives are to, for example:
 • Implement five public engagement activities for greenhouse gas reductions 
within the next twelve months
 • Increase seatbelt use by 30%, reduce speeding by 10% in general and 20% in 
school zones, and reduce intersection encroachment by 25% 
 • Implement water rates relative to industrial and residential consumption pat
-
terns within five years 
A for-profit entity may set operations objectives that focus on the efficient uses of 
resources. For instance, a larger retailer has among its objectives to:
 • Provide customers with a broad range of merchandise at prices consistently 
lower than its competitors 
 • Increase inventory turnover ratio to twelve times per year within the next 
two quarters
 • Lower its CO
2 emissions by 5% and reduce and recycle packaging material by 
10% over the next year
As part of operations objectives, management also specifies risk tolerance set during 
the objective-setting process. For operations objectives, risk tolerance may be 
expressed in relation to the acceptable level of variation relative to the objective.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
63
239 
240 
241 
242 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
Goals and Resources
A clear set of operations objectives provides a clear focus on which the entity will 
commit substantial resources needed to attain desired performance goals. These 
include goals relating to financial performance, which pertain to all types of entities. A 
for-profit entity may focus on revenue, profitability, liquidity, or some other measure, 
while a not-for-profit or governmental agency may have less financial emphasis overall, 
but still pursue goals relating to revenue, liquidity, and spending. If an entity’s operations 
objectives are not clear or well conceived, its resources may be misdirected. 
Reporting Objectives
Reporting objectives pertain to the preparation of reports that encompass reliability, 
timeliness, transparency, or other terms as set forth by regulators, standard-setting 
bodies, or by the entity’s policies. This category includes external financial reporting, 
external non-financial reporting, internal financial reporting, and internal non-financial 
reporting. External reporting objectives are driven primarily by laws, rules, regulations, 
and standards established by governments, regulators, standard-setting bodies, and 
accounting bodies. Internal reporting objectives are driven by the entity’s strategic 
directions, and by reporting requirements and expectations established by manage -
ment and the board of directors. 
External Financial Reporting Objectives
Points of Focus
The following points of focus may assist management in determining whether this prin -
ciple is present and functioning as it relates to external financial reporting objectives:
 • Complies with Applicable Accounting Standards —Financial reporting 
objectives are consistent with accounting principles suitable and avail -
able for that entity. The accounting principles selected are appropriate in 
the circumstances.
 • Considers Materiality —Management considers materiality in financial state
-
ment presentation.
 • Reflects Entity Activities —External reporting reflects the underlying transac -
tions and events to show qualitative characteristics and assertions.
Complies with Accounting Standards
Entities need to achieve financial reporting objectives to meet external obligations. 
Published financial statements and financial information are necessary for access -
ing capital markets and may be critical to the awarding of contracts or to dealing with 
suppliers. Investors, analysts, and creditors may use financial statements and other 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
64
243 
244 
245 
246 Post Public Exposure Version
Components of Internal Control | Risk Assessment
financial information to assess the entity’s performance and to compare it with peers 
and alternative investments.
Financial reporting objectives are consistent with accounting principles suitable and 
available for that entity and appropriate in the circumstances. External financial report -
ing objectives address the preparation of external financial statements, including finan -
cial statements, for external purposes, and other forms of external financial reporting 
derived from an entity’s financial or management accounting books and records.
 • Financial statements for external purposes are prepared in accordance with 
applicable accounting standards, rules, and regulations. These financial state
-
ments include annual and interim financial statements, condensed financial 
statements, and selected financial information derived from such statements. 
These statements may, for instance, be publicly filed with a regulator, distrib
-
uted through annual meetings, posted to an entity’s website, or distributed 
through other electronic media.  
 • Other financial statements/reports may be prepared in accordance with 
other comprehensive basis of accounting and are typically driven by taxing 
authorities, governmental agencies, or by requirements established through 
contracts and agreements. Other external financial statements/reports may 
be distributed to specified external users (e.g., reporting to a bank on financial 
covenants established in a loan agreement, to a taxing authority in connection 
with filing tax returns, to a funding agency by a not-for-profit entity where such 
statements are not made public).  
 • Other external financial reporting derived from an entity’s financial and man
-
agement accounting books and records rather than from financial state -
ments for external purposes may include earnings releases, selected financial 
information posted to an entity’s website, and selected amounts reported in 
regulatory filings. External financial reporting objectives relating to such other 
financial information may not be driven directly by standard setters and regu
-
lators, but are typically expected by stakeholders to align with such standards 
and regulations.
Qualitative Characteristics
External financial reporting reflects transactions and events to show the qualitative 
characteristics and assertions that underlie financial statements established by the 
respective accounting standard setters. There are many sources of such characteristics 
and assertions relating to financial reporting. 
External financial statements may be considered in terms of fundamental characteristics  
and enhancing characteristics .
8,9
8 Derived from International Financial Reporting Standards.
9 Some jurisdictions may describe financial statement assertions using terms such as “existence or 
occurrence,” “completeness, valuation or allocation,” “rights and obligations,” and “presentation 
and disclosure.”
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012 65
247 
248 
249 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
Fundamental characteristics refer to relevance and faithful representation, as follows:
 • Relevance—information that is capable of making a difference in user 
decisions 
 • Faithful Representation—information that is complete, neutral, and free 
from error 
Enhancing characteristics refer to comparability, verifiability, timeliness, and under -
standability, as follows:
 • Comparability—information that can be compared with similar information 
about other entities and with similar information about the same entity for 
another period or another date 
 • Verifiability—different knowledgeable and independent observers reaching 
consensus, although not necessarily complete agreement, that a particular 
depiction is a faithful representation 
 • Timeliness—having information available to decision-makers in time to be 
of use 
 • Understandability —information that is classified, characterized, and presented 
clearly and concisely 
Inherent in relevance is the concept of “financial statement materiality.” Materiality sets 
the threshold for determining whether a financial amount is relevant. Information is 
material if its omission or misstatement could influence the decision of users taken on 
the basis of the financial reporting. Materiality depends on the size of the item or error 
judged in the particular circumstances of its omission or misstatement. With external 
financial reporting, materiality reflects the required level of precision and accuracy suit -
able for external users’ needs and presents the underlying entity activities, transactions, 
and events within the range of acceptable limits.
Reliability is another frequently used qualitative characteristic associated with external 
financial reporting objectives. Reliability involves preparing external financial statements 
that are free of material error and bias. Reliability is also necessary for the information 
to faithfully represent the transactions or other events it purports to represent. External 
reporting also reflects the required level of precision and accuracy suitable for internal 
needs and the underlying entity activities, presenting transactions, and events within a 
range of acceptable limits.
The qualitative characteristics noted above are applied along with suitable accounting 
standards and financial statement assertions. These assertions typically fall into the 
categories relating to:
 • Classes of transactions and events for the period
 • Account balances at the period end
 • Presentation and disclosure10
10 Derived from International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB) International Standards on 
Auditing 315.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
66
250 
251 
252 
253 
254 Post Public Exposure Version
Components of Internal Control | Risk Assessment
External Non-Financial Reporting Objectives
Points of Focus
The following points of focus may assist management in determining whether 
this principle is present and functioning as it relates to external non-financial 
reporting objectives:
 • Complies with Externally Established Standards and Frameworks —Man-
agement establishes objectives consistent with laws and regulations, or stan -
dards and frameworks of recognized external organizations.
 • Considers the Required Level of Precision —Management reflects the 
required level of precision and accuracy suitable for user needs and as based 
on criteria established by third parties in non-financial reporting.
 • Reflects Entity Activities —External reporting reflects the underlying transac
-
tions and events within a range of acceptable limits.
Complies with Standards and Frameworks 
Management may also report information externally consistent with non-financial exter -
nal standards or frameworks. For example, where management seeks to manage its 
impact on sustainable development, it may prepare and publish a sustainability report 
that provides information about economic, environmental, and social performance. 
Another entity may apply chain-of-custody standards through which its products are 
distributed from their origin in the forest to their end use. The entity attains an annual 
certification that demonstrates its responsible production and consumption of forest 
products and publicly reports this information.
Considers Precision and Reflects Activities 
Non-financial reporting, as with financial reporting:
 • Classifies and summarizes information in a reasonable manner and at the 
appropriate level of detail so that it is neither too detailed nor too condensed 
 • Reflects the underlying entity activities
 • Presents transactions and events within the required level of precision and 
accuracy suitable for user needs 
 • Uses criteria established by the third parties and as set out in external stan
-
dards or frameworks, as appropriate 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
67
255 
256 
257 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
Internal Reporting Objectives
Points of Focus
The following points of focus may assist management in determining whether this prin -
ciple is present and functioning as it relates to internal reporting objectives:
 • Reflects Management’s Choices —Internal reporting provides management 
with accurate and complete information regarding management’s choices and 
information needed in managing the entity.
 • Considers the Required Level of Precision —Management reflects the 
required level of precision and accuracy suitable for user needs in non-finan -
cial reporting objectives and materiality within financial reporting objectives.
 • Reflects Entity Activities —Internal reporting reflects the underlying transac -
tions and events within a range of acceptable limits.
Management Choices 
Reliable internal reporting, including balanced scorecards and performance dash -
boards, provides management with accurate and complete information needed to 
manage the organization. It supports management’s decision making and monitoring 
of the entity’s activities and performance. Examples of internal reports include results 
of marketing programs, daily sales flash reports, production quality, and employee and 
customer satisfaction results. Internal reporting objectives are based on preferences, 
judgment, and management style. 
Internal reporting objectives vary among entities because different organizations have 
different goals, strategic directions, and levels of risk tolerance. As with external report -
ing, internal reporting reflects the required level of precision and accuracy suitable for 
internal needs and the underlying entity activities, presenting transactions and events 
within a range of acceptable limits.
Many organizations will apply external standards to assist in managing their operations. 
Such standards may relate to the control over technology, human resource manage -
ment, or records management. However, as standards that apply to external reporting 
may not apply to internal reporting, management may choose to set different levels of 
acceptable variation for external and internal reporting. 
As with other types of reporting, internal reporting:
 • Uses criteria established by the third parties and as set out in external stan -
dards or frameworks, as appropriate
 • Classifies and summarizes information in a reasonable manner and at the 
appropriate level of detail so that it is neither too detailed nor too condensed 
 • Reflects the underlying entity activities
 • Presents transactions and events within the required level of precision and 
accuracy suitable for user needs 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
68
258 
259 
260 
261 
262 Post Public Exposure Version
Components of Internal Control | Risk Assessment
Compliance Objectives
Points of Focus
The following points of focus may assist management in determining whether this prin -
ciple is present and functioning as it relates to compliance objectives:
 • Reflects External Laws and Regulations —Laws and regulations establish 
minimum standards of conduct which the entity integrates into compliance 
objectives.
 • Considers Tolerances for Risk—Management considers the acceptable levels 
of variation relative to the achievement of compliance objectives.
Minimum Standards of Conduct 
Laws and regulations establish minimum standards of conduct that the entity integrates 
into its compliance objectives. For example, occupational safety and health regula -
tions might cause an entity to define its objective as “package and label all chemicals 
in accordance with regulations.” Policies and procedures would then deal with com -
munications programs, site inspections, and training relating to the entity’s compliance 
objectives. And, similar to external reporting objectives, management considers the 
acceptable levels of variation in performance within the context of complying with laws 
and regulations. Such laws and regulations may cause management to set lower levels 
of acceptable variation to remain in compliance with those laws and regulations.
Entities must conduct their activities, and often take specific actions, in accordance 
with applicable laws and regulations. As part of specifying compliance objectives, the 
organization needs to understand which laws and regulations apply across the entity. 
Many laws and regulations are generally well known, such as those relating to reporting 
on anti-bribery, fair labor practices, and environmental compliance, but others may not 
be as well known to the organization, such as those that apply to operations in a remote 
foreign territory. 
Many laws and regulations depend on external factors and tend to be similar across all 
entities in some cases and across an industry in others. These requirements may relate, 
for example, to markets, pricing, taxes, the environment, employee welfare, or interna -
tional trade. Many entities will establish objectives such as:
 • Preventing and detecting criminal conduct and other wrongdoing
 • Preparing and filing tax returns prior to the filing deadlines and in accordance 
with regulatory requirements
 • Labeling nutritional information on food packaging in accordance with appli -
cable guidelines
 • Operating a vehicle fleet within maximum emission control requirements 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
69
263 
264 
265 
266 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
Identifies and Analyzes Risk
Principle 7: The organization identifies risks to the 
achievement of its objectives across the entity and 
analyzes risks as a basis for determining how the risks 
should be managed.
Points of Focus
The following points of focus may assist management in determining whether this prin -
ciple is present and functioning:
 • Includes Entity, Subsidiary, Division, Operating Unit, and Functional 
Levels—The organization identifies and assesses risks at the entity, subsid -
iary, division, operating unit, and functional levels relevant to the achievement 
of objectives. 
 • Analyzes Internal and External Factors —Risk identification considers 
both internal and external factors and their impact on the achievement 
of objectives.
 • Involves Appropriate Levels of Management —The organization puts into 
place effective risk assessment mechanisms that involve appropriate levels of 
management.
 • Estimates Significance of Risks Identified —Identified risks are analyzed 
through a process that includes estimating the potential significance of 
the risk.
 • Determines How to Respond to Risks —Risk assessment includes consider
-
ing how the risk should be managed and whether to accept, avoid, reduce, or 
share the risk.
Identifying and analyzing risk is an ongoing iterative process conducted to enhance 
the entity’s ability to achieve its objectives. Although an entity might not explicitly state 
all objectives, this does not mean that an implied objective is without either internal or 
external risk. Regardless of whether an objective is stated or implied, an entity’s risk 
assessment process should consider risks that may occur. This process is supported 
by a variety of activities, techniques, and mechanisms, each relevant to overall risk 
assessment. Management develops and implements controls relating to the conduct of 
such activities. 
Management considers risks at all levels of the entity and takes the necessary actions 
to respond. An entity’s assessment considers factors that influence the severity, veloc -
ity, and persistence of the risk, likelihood of the loss of assets, and the related impact on 
operations, reporting, and compliance activities. The entity also needs to understand its 
tolerance for accepting risks and its ability to operate within those risk levels. 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
70
267 
268 
269 Post Public Exposure Version
Components of Internal Control | Risk Assessment
Risk Identification
Risk identification must be comprehensive. It should consider all significant interac -
tions—of goods, services, and information—internal to an entity and between the entity 
and its relevant business partners and outsourced service providers. These entities can 
include potential and existing suppliers, investors, creditors, shareholders, employees, 
customers, buyers, intermediaries, and competitors, as well as public bodies and news 
media. In addition, the organization should consider risks emanating from external 
factors such as new or amended laws and regulations, environmental issues, or poten -
tial natural events. 
Further, risks related primarily to one category of objectives may impact objectives 
in other categories. For instance, a risk relating primarily to an operations objective 
for the timely production and delivery of a company’s product may also impact finan -
cial reporting if the company’s sales contract contains penalties for late shipments. 
In those instances where an organization is considering risks relating primarily to one 
category of objectives, for instance financial reporting, the risk assessment process 
may need to consider objectives in other categories that can also impact financial 
reporting objectives.
Risk identification is an iterative process and is often integrated with the planning 
process. However, it may be useful to take a fresh look at the identified risks, and not 
merely default to making an inventory of risks as noted in the previous review. The focus 
is on identifying all risks that potentially impact the achievement of objectives as well as 
on emerging risks—those risks that are increasingly relevant and important to the entity 
and that may be addressed by scanning and analyzing relevant risk factors, as remote 
as they may seem.
Considers Entity and Subunits 
Risk identification considers risks at various levels of the organizational structure, 
including the overall entity and its subunits, including processes such as sales, human 
resources, marketing, production, and purchasing. Entity-level risk identification is 
typically conducted at a relatively high level and, generally, does not include assessing 
transaction-level risks. Conversely, the identification of risks at a process level is inher -
ently more detailed and would include transaction-level risks.
In addition, risk assessment considers risks originating in outsourced service provid -
ers, key suppliers, and channel partners that directly or indirectly impact the entity’s 
achievement of objectives.
Internal and External Factors
Management considers risks in relation to internal and external factors. Risk is dynamic; 
therefore, to determine the frequency of its risk assessment process, management 
generally considers the rate of change in risks to the achievement of objectives, other 
operational priorities, and cost. Typically, the process is a combination of ongoing and 
periodic risk assessments. If the rate of change relating to an objective or internal and 
external factors increases, it is useful to accelerate the frequency of assessing the 
related risks or assess the risk on a real-time basis.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
71
270 
271 
272 
273 
274 
275 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
Entity-Level Risks
Risks at the entity level can arise from external or internal factors. External factors 
may include:
 • Economic—Changes that can impact financing, capital availability, and barri -
ers to competitive entry
 • Natural Environment—Natural or human-caused catastrophes or ongoing 
climate change that can lead to changes in operations, reduced availability of 
raw materials, or loss of information systems, highlighting the need for contin
-
gency planning
 • Regulatory—A new financial reporting standard that can require different or 
additional reporting by a legal entity, management operating model, or line of 
business; a new anti-trust law or regulation that can force changes in operat
-
ing or reporting policies and strategies
 • Foreign Operations—A change in the government of a foreign country of 
operation that can result in new laws and regulations or altered tax regimes
 • Social—Changing customer needs or expectations that can affect product 
development, production process, customer service, pricing, or warranties
 • Technological—Developments that can affect the availability and use of data, 
infrastructure costs, and the demand for technology-based services
Internal factors include:
 • Infrastructure—Decisions on the use of capital resources that can affect 
operations and the ongoing availability of infrastructure
 • Management Structure —A change in management responsibilities that can 
affect the way certain controls are effected
 • Personnel—The quality of personnel hired and methods of training and moti -
vation that can influence the level of control consciousness within the entity; 
expiration of labor agreements that can affect the availability of staff
 • Access to Assets—The nature of the entity’s activities and employee accessi
-
bility to assets that can contribute to misappropriation of resources
 • Technology—A disruption in information systems processing that can 
adversely affect the entity’s operations
Identifying external and internal factors that contribute to risk at an entity level is critical 
to comprehensive risk assessment. Once the major factors have been identified, man -
agement can then consider their relevance and significance and, where possible, link 
these factors to specific risks and activities.
For example, an importer of apparel and footwear established an entity-level objec -
tive of becoming an industry leader in high-quality fashion merchandise. The entity 
considered general risks such as the impact of deterioration in economic conditions, 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
72
276 
277 
278 
279 Post Public Exposure Version
Components of Internal Control | Risk Assessment
market acceptance of products, new competitors in the entity’s market, and changes in 
environmental or regulatory laws and regulations. In addition, the entity considered risks 
at the entity level such as:
 • Supply sources, including the quality, quantity, and stability of foreign 
manufacturers
 • Exposures to fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies
 • Timeliness of receiving shipments and delays in customs inspections
 • Availability and reliability of shipping companies and costs
 • Likelihood of international hostilities and trade embargoes
 • Pressures from customers and investors to boycott doing business in a 
foreign country whose government adopts unacceptable policies
 • Expectations from consumers or local stakeholders toward use of 
natural resources 
Transaction-Level Risks
Risks are identified at the transaction level within subsidiaries, divisions, operating units, 
or functions. Dealing with risks at this level helps focus on the achievement of objectives 
and/or sub-objectives that have cascaded down from the entity-level objectives. Suc -
cessfully assessing risk at the transaction level also contributes to maintaining accept -
able levels at the entity level.
In most instances, many different risks can be identified. In a procurement process, for 
example, an entity may have an objective related to maintaining adequate raw materi -
als inventory. The risks to not achieving this objective might include suppliers providing 
materials that do not meet specifications or are not delivered in needed quantities, on 
time, or at acceptable prices. These risks might affect entity-level objectives pertain -
ing to the way specifications for purchased goods are communicated to vendors, the 
use and appropriateness of production forecasts, identification of alternative supply 
sources, and negotiation practices.
Potential causes of failing to achieve an objective range from the obvious to the 
obscure. Certainly, readily apparent risks that significantly affect the entity should be 
identified. To avoid overlooking relevant risks, this identification is best made apart 
from assessing the likelihood of the risk occurring. There are, however, practical limita -
tions to the identification process, and often it is difficult to determine where to draw 
the line. For example, it may not make sense to conduct a detailed assessment of the 
risk of a meteor falling from space onto an entity’s production facility, while it may be 
reasonable for a facility located near an airport to consider in some detail the risk of an 
airplane crash.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
73
280 
281 
282 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
Risk Analysis
After risks have been identified at both the entity level and the transaction level, a risk 
analysis needs to be performed. The methodology for analyzing risks can vary, largely 
because many risks are difficult to quantify. Nonetheless, the process—which may be 
more or less formal—usually includes assessing the likelihood of the risk occurring and 
estimating its impact. In addition, the process could consider other criteria to the extent 
management deems necessary.
Levels of Management
As with other processes within internal control, responsibility and accountability for risk 
identification and analysis processes reside with management at the overall entity and 
its subunits. The organization puts into place effective risk assessment mechanisms 
that involve appropriate levels of management with expertise.
Significance of Risk 
As part of risk analysis, the organization assesses the significance of risks to the 
achievement of objectives and sub-objectives. Organizations may assess significance 
using criteria such as: 
 • Likelihood of risk occurring and impact
 • Velocity or speed to impact upon occurrence of the risk
 • Persistence or duration of time of impact after occurrence of the risk 
“Likelihood” and “impact” are commonly used terms, although some entities use 
instead “probability,” “severity,” “seriousness,” or “consequence.” “Likelihood” repre-
sents the possibility that a given event will occur, while “impact” represents its effect. 
Sometimes the words take on more specific meaning, with “likelihood” indicating the 
possibility that a given risk will occur in qualitative terms such as “high,” “medium,” and 
“low,” and “probability” indicating a quantitative measure such as a percentage, fre -
quency of occurrence, or other numerical metric.
Risk velocity refers to the pace with which the entity is expected to experience the 
impact of the risk. For instance, a manufacturer of consumer electronics may be con -
cerned about changing customer preferences and compliance with radio frequency 
energy limits. Failing to manage either of these risks may result in significant erosion 
in the entity’s value, even to the point of being put out of business. In this instance, 
changes in regulatory requirements develop much more slowly than do changes in 
customer preferences. 
Management often uses performance measures to determine the extent to which objec -
tives are being achieved, and normally uses the same or a congruent unit of measure 
when considering the potential impact of a risk on the achievement of a specified 
objective. An entity, for example, with an objective of maintaining a specified level of 
customer service will have devised a rating or other measure for that objective—such 
as a customer satisfaction index, number of complaints, or measure of repeat business. 
When assessing the impact of a risk that might affect customer service—such as the 
possibility that the entity’s website might be unavailable for a time period—impact is 
best determined using the same measures.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
74
283 
284 
285 
286 
287 
288 Post Public Exposure Version
Components of Internal Control | Risk Assessment
A risk that does not have a significant impact on the entity and that is unlikely to occur 
generally does not require a detailed risk response. A risk with a higher likelihood of 
occurrence and/or the potential of a significant impact, on the other hand, typically 
results in considerable attention. But even those risks with a potentially high impact that 
have a low likelihood will be considered, avoiding the notion that such risks “couldn’t 
happen here,” as even low likelihood risks can occur. The importance of understanding 
risks assessed as having a low likelihood is greater when the potential impact of the risk 
might persist over a longer period of time. For instance, the long-term impact on the 
entity from environmental damage caused by the entity’s actions may be viewed much 
differently than the long-term impact of losing technology processing in a manufactur -
ing plant for several days. 
Estimates of significance of the risk often are determined by using data from past 
events, which provide a more objective basis than entirely subjective estimates. Inter -
nally generated data based on an entity’s own experience may be more relevant and 
provide better results than data from external sources. Even in these circumstances, 
however, external data can be useful as a checkpoint or to enhance the analysis. 
For example, a company’s management assessing the risk of production stoppages 
because of equipment failure looks first at frequency and impact of previous failures of 
its own manufacturing equipment. It then supplements that data with industry bench -
marks. This allows a more precise estimate of likelihood and impact of failure, enabling 
more effective preventive maintenance scheduling. Note, too, that using data from past 
events can provide incomplete conclusions where events occur infrequently. 
In addition, management may wish to assess risks using a time horizon consistent 
with the time horizon of the related objectives. Because the objectives of many entities 
focus on the short- to mid-term, management analyzes risks associated with those time 
frames. However, some objectives extend to the longer term, and management must 
not ignore those risks that might be further into the future.
Inherent and Residual Risk
Management considers both inherent and residual risk. Inherent risk is the risk to an 
entity in the absence of any actions management might take to alter either the risk’s 
likelihood or impact. Residual risk is the risk that remains after management’s response 
to inherent risk. Risk analysis is applied first to inherent risk. Once risk responses 
have been developed, as discussed below, management then considers residual risk. 
Assessing inherent risk in addition to residual risk can assist the organization in under -
standing the extent of risk responses needed. However, management may choose to 
focus primarily on residual risk.
Risk Response
Once the potential significance of risks has been assessed, management considers 
how the risk should be managed. This involves applying judgment based on assump -
tions about the risk and reasonable analysis of costs associated with reducing the level 
of risk. The response need not necessarily result in the least amount of residual risk. But 
where a risk response would result in residual risk exceeding levels acceptable to man -
agement and the board, management revisits and revises the response or, in certain 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
75
289 
290 
291 
292 
293 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
instances, reconsiders the established risk tolerance. Accordingly, the balancing of risk 
and risk tolerance may be iterative.
Risk responses fall within the following categories:
 • Acceptance—No action is taken to affect risk likelihood or impact.
 • Avoidance—Exiting the activities giving rise to risk; may involve exiting a 
product line, declining expansion to a new geographical market, or selling 
a division.
 • Reduction—Action is taken to reduce risk likelihood or impact, or both; typi -
cally involves any of myriad everyday business decisions.
 • Sharing—Reducing risk likelihood or impact by transferring or otherwise 
sharing a portion of the risk; common techniques include purchasing insur -
ance products, forming joint ventures, engaging in hedging transactions, or 
outsourcing an activity.
In considering risk response, management should consider:
 • The potential effect on risk significance and which response options align with 
the entity’s risk tolerance
 • Requisite segregation of duties to enable the response to achieve the intended 
reduction in significance
 • Costs versus benefits of potential responses
Evaluating Risk Response Options
In evaluating response options, management considers significance, including the effect 
on both likelihood and impact of the risk, recognizing that a response might affect them 
differently. For example, consider a company with a data center located in a region with 
heavy storm activity. It establishes a business continuity plan, which, while having no 
effect on the likelihood of a storm occurring, mitigates the impact of building damage 
or personnel being unable to get to work should a storm occur. On the other hand, the 
choice to move the computer center to another region will not reduce the impact of a 
comparable storm, but could reduce the likelihood of a similar storm occurring near that 
new location. 
Resources always have constraints, and entities must consider the relative costs and 
benefits of alternative risk response options. Before installing additional procedures, 
management should consider carefully whether existing ones may be suitable for 
addressing identified risks. Because procedures may satisfy multiple objectives, man -
agement may discover that additional actions are not warranted or that existing proce -
dures may be sufficient or simply need to be performed to a higher standard.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
76
294 
295 
296 
297 Post Public Exposure Version
Components of Internal Control | Risk Assessment
Selected Responses
There is a distinction between risk assessment, which is part of internal control, and 
the choice of specific risk responses and the related plans, programs, or other actions, 
which are part of the management process and not internal controls. Internal control 
does not encompass ensuring that the optimal risk response is chosen. For instance, 
the management of one entity may choose to share technology risk by outsourcing 
certain aspects of its technology processing with an entity experienced in that field 
(recognizing that this may also introduce new risks to the organization), while another 
entity may choose to retain its technology processing and develop general controls 
over activities for managing related technology risks. Neither of these choices should 
be viewed as right or wrong, as both can be effective at managing technology risks. But 
where a risk response would result in the residual risk exceeding risk tolerances for any 
category of objectives, management revisits and revises the response accordingly.
Once management has chosen to reduce or share a risk, then it can determine actions 
to respond to the risk and select and develop associated control activities. The nature 
and extent of the risk response and any associated control activities will depend, at 
least in part, on the desired level of risk mitigation (which is the focus of Chapter 7). 
In some instances, management may select a response that requires action within 
another component of internal control—for instance enhancing a part of the control 
environment. 
Typically, control activities are not needed when an entity chooses to either accept or 
avoid a specific risk. For instance, a mining company with significant commodity price 
risk may decide to accept the risk as it believes that investors are aware of and accept 
price risk exposure. In this case, management would not implement control activities 
relating to commodity price exposures, but would likely implement control activities 
relating to other external financial reporting assertions, including completeness and 
valuation. There may, however, be instances where the organization decides to avoid a 
risk, and chooses to develop control activities in order to avoid that risk. For instance, 
to avoid concerns over possible fair trade practices, an organization may implement 
control activities barring purchasing from certain entities. 
Management may also need to review the level of risk in light of changes that make it 
no longer desirable to accept that risk, as the risk now exceeds the organization’s risk 
tolerance. When management chooses not to assess a risk or does not identify a risk, it 
is tantamount to accepting the risk without considering potential changes in the related 
level of risk and whether that risk remains within its risk tolerance.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
77
298 
299 
300 
301 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
Assesses Fraud Risk 
Principle 8: The organization considers the potential for 
fraud in assessing risks to the achievement of objectives.
Points of Focus
The following points of focus may assist management in determining whether this prin -
ciple is present and functioning:
 • Considers Various Types of Fraud—The assessment of fraud considers 
fraudulent reporting, possible loss of assets, and corruption resulting from the 
various ways that fraud and misconduct can occur. 
 • Assesses Incentive and Pressures —The assessment of fraud risk considers 
incentives and pressures. 
 • Assesses Opportunities —The assessment of fraud risk considers opportu -
nities for unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposal of assets, altering of the 
entity’s reporting records, or committing other inappropriate acts.
 • Assesses Attitudes and Rationalizations —The assessment of fraud risk 
considers how management and other personnel might engage in or justify 
inappropriate actions. 
Types of Fraud
Risk assessment includes management’s assessment of the risks relating to the fraudu -
lent reporting and safeguarding of the entity’s assets. In addition, management consid -
ers possible acts of corruption, both by entity personnel and by outsourced service 
providers directly impacting the entity’s ability to achieve its objectives. 
The actions being conducted as part of applying this principle link closely to the pre -
ceding principle (see Identifies and Analyzes Risks), which assesses risks based on 
the presumption that the entity’s expected standards of ethical conduct are adhered 
to by management, other personnel, and outsourced service providers. This principle, 
Assesses Fraud Risk, assesses risk in a different context, when an individual’s actions 
may not align with the expected standards of conduct. Responses to risks identified as 
part of this principle fall within the same categories noted above (accept, avoid, reduce, 
and share). And, as above, the selection of specific risk responses to address fraud 
risks is a management decision and not part of internal control.
Fraudulent Reporting
Fraudulent reporting can occur when an entity’s reports are wilfully prepared with 
misstatements or omissions. These events may occur through unauthorized receipts 
or expenditures, financial misconduct, or other disclosure irregularities. A system of 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
78
302 
303 
304 
305 Post Public Exposure Version
Components of Internal Control | Risk Assessment
internal control over external financial reporting is designed and implemented to prevent 
or detect, in a timely manner, any material misstatement within the financial statements 
due to error or fraud.
When assessing risks to the achievement of external financial reporting objectives, 
organizations typically consider the potential for fraud in the following areas:
 • Fraudulent External Financial Reporting —An intentional act designed to 
deceive users of external financial reports and that results in a material mis -
statement in such financial reports 
 • Misappropriation of Assets —Theft of the entity’s assets where the effect 
causes a material misstatement in the external financial reports
 • Illegal Acts—Violations of laws or governmental regulations that could have a 
material direct or indirect impact on the external financial report.
As part of the risk assessment process, the entity should identify the various ways that 
fraudulent reporting can occur, considering:
 • Degree of estimates and judgments in external reporting
 • Fraud schemes and scenarios common to the industry sectors and markets in 
which the entity operates
 • Geographic regions where the entity does business
 • Incentives that may motivate fraudulent behavior
 • Nature of technology
 • Unusual or complex transactions subject to significant management influence
 • Vulnerability to management override and potential schemes to circumvent 
existing control activities
There may be instances where the organization is not able to directly manage the infor -
mation captured for financial reporting, yet is expected to have controls within the entity 
that identify, analyze, and respond to that particular risk. For instance, management of 
a software vendor may not be able to prevent personnel within an on-line retailer from 
underreporting sales numbers to reduce payments to the software vendor. However, the 
software company can implement control activities to detect such reporting by compar -
ing new software registration levels to sales volumes. 
Further, risks pertaining to the complete and accurate recording of asset losses in the 
entity’s financial statements represent a reporting objective. More specifically related 
to financial reporting, misstatements may arise from failing to record the loss of assets, 
manipulating the financial statements to conceal such a loss, or recording transactions 
outside the appropriate reporting period. For instance, an entity may hold its books 
open for an extended time after a period end to include additional sales, improperly 
account for intercompany transfers of inventory, or manipulate the amortization of its 
capital assets. 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
79
306 
307 
308 
309 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
Safeguarding of Assets
Safeguarding of assets refers to protecting against the unauthorized and wilful acquisi -
tion, use, or disposal of assets. The inappropriate use of an entity’s assets occurs to 
benefit an individual or group. The unauthorized acquisition, use, and disposal of assets 
may relate to activities such as illegal marketing, theft of assets, theft of intellectual 
property, late trading, and money laundering.
Relationship between Fraudulent Reporting and Safeguarding of 
Assets and Objectives
Safeguarding of assets typically relates to operations objectives, although certain 
aspects may relate to other categories of objectives. In terms of operations, manage -
ment may consider the inappropriate use of an entity’s assets and other resources 
including intellectual property and preventing loss through theft, waste, or neglect. 
An entity may also lose value of its assets through inefficiency or what turns out to be 
simply bad business decisions—such as selling a product at too low a price, or extend -
ing credit to bad risks. These situations relate to the operations objectives but are not 
directly linked to safeguarding of assets.
Where legal or regulatory requirements apply, management considers risks relating to 
safeguarding of assets in relation to compliance objectives. For example, an entity may 
intentionally prepare inaccurate regulatory reporting statements to avoid inspection 
and penalties. 
Regardless of what objective may be affected, the responsibility and accountability for 
loss prevention and anti-fraud policies and procedures reside with management of the 
entity and its subunits in which the risk resides.
Corruption
In addition to assessing risks relating to the safeguarding of assets and fraudulent 
reporting, management considers possible corruption occurring within the entity. Cor -
ruption is generally relevant to the compliance category of objectives but could very well 
influence the control environment that also affects the entity’s external financial report -
ing objectives. This includes considering incentives and pressures to achieve objectives 
while demonstrating adherence to expected standards of conduct and the effect of the 
control environment, specifically actions linked to Principle 4 (Demonstrates Commit -
ment to Competence) and Principle 5 (Enforces Accountability). Aspects of corruption 
that are considered in an external financial reporting context typically relate to illegal 
acts that are considered in government statutes relevant to the activity.
In assessing possible corruption, the entity is not expected to directly manage the 
actions of personnel within third-party organizations, including those relating to out -
sourced operations, customers, suppliers, or advisors. However, depending on the level 
of risk assessed within this component, management may stipulate the expected level 
of performance and standards of conduct through contractual relations, and develop 
control activities that maintain oversight of third-party actions. Where necessary, man -
agement responds to detected unusual actions of others. 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
80
310 
311 
312 
313 
314 
315 Post Public Exposure Version
Components of Internal Control | Risk Assessment
Management Override
Management override describes action taken to override an entity’s controls for an 
illegitimate purpose including personal gain or an enhanced presentation of an entity’s 
financial condition or compliance status. For example, to allow a large shipment of 
goods to a customer with unacceptable credit in order to increase revenue, a manager 
improperly overrides internal control by approving the sale transaction placed on credit 
hold by a supervisor who conducted the control properly. Actions to override are typi -
cally not documented or disclosed, because the intent is to cover up the actions. 
Management override should not be confused with management intervention, which 
represents action that departs from controls designed for legitimate purposes. At 
times, management intervention is necessary to deal with non-recurring and non-
standard transactions or events that otherwise might be handled inappropriately. 
Providing for management intervention is necessary because controls cannot be 
designed to anticipate and mitigate every risk and condition. Management’s actions 
to intervene are generally overt and commonly documented or otherwise disclosed to 
appropriate personnel. 
As part of assessing fraud risk, management assesses the risk of management override 
of internal control. The board of directors or subset of the board (e.g., audit commit -
tee) oversees this assessment and challenges management depending on the circum -
stances. This is especially important for smaller entities where senior management 
may be very involved in conducting many controls (e.g., in the period-end financial 
reporting process). 
Factors Impacting Fraud Risk
Incentives and Pressures
Assessing the risk of fraud includes considering opportunities to commit fraud, as well 
as attitudes and rationalizations. Where there is a loss of assets, fraudulent reporting, or 
corruption, there are typically incentives and pressures, opportunities to access those 
assets, and attitudes and rationalizations that claim to justify the action. Incentives 
and pressures often result from and relate to the control environment, as discussed in 
Principle 5 (Enforces Accountability). As part of assessing fraud risk, the organization 
considers possible incentives and pressures and the potential impact on fraud risk.
Opportunity
Opportunity refers to the ability to actually acquire, use, or dispose of assets, which 
may be accompanied by altering the entity’s records. Those involved in the inappropri -
ate actions usually also believe that their activities will not be detected. Opportunity is 
created by weak control activities and monitoring, poor management oversight, and 
management override of control. For instance, the likelihood of a loss of assets or 
fraudulent external reporting increases when there is:
 • A complex or unstable organizational structure
 • High turnover rates of employees within accounting, operations, risk manage -
ment, internal audit, or technology staff
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
81
316 
317 
318 
319 
320 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
 • Ineffective design or poorly executed control activities
 • Ineffective technology systems
Attitudes and Rationalization
Attitudes and rationalizations by individuals engaging in or justifying inappropriate 
actions may include: 
 • A person labeling the use of resources as borrowing, and fully intending to pay 
the stolen money back at some point
 • A person believing that something is owed to him or her because of job dis
-
satisfaction (salary, job environment, treatment by managers, etc.) 
 • A person not understanding or not caring about the consequences of his or 
her actions or of accepted notions of decency and trust
Other Considerations in Fraud Risk Assessment
It is possible to mitigate the likelihood of a fraud-related risk by taking action within the 
other components of internal control or by making changes to the entity’s operating 
units, business processes, and activities. An entity may choose to sell certain opera -
tions that are prone to having higher risks relating to individual conduct, cease doing 
business in certain geographic locations, reallocate roles among personnel to enhance 
the segregation of duties, or reorganize its business processes to avoid unacceptable 
risks. For example, the risk of misappropriation of funds may be reduced by implement -
ing a central payment processing function with greater segregation of duties instead 
of having only a few staff process payments at each of the entity’s locations. The risk 
of corruption may be reduced by closely monitoring the entity’s procurement process. 
The risk of financial statement fraud may be reduced by establishing shared services 
centers to provide accounting services to multiple segments, affiliates, or geographic 
locations of an entity’s operations. A shared services center may be less vulnerable to 
influence by local operations managers and may be able to cost effectively implement 
more extensive anti-fraud programs.
When management detects fraudulent reporting, inadequate safeguarding of assets, or 
corruption, some form of remediation may be necessary. In addition to dealing directly 
with the improper actions, it may be necessary to take remediation steps within the 
risk assessment process or amend actions undertaken as part of other components of 
internal control. 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
82
321 
322 
323 Post Public Exposure Version
Components of Internal Control | Risk Assessment
Identifies and Analyzes Significant Change 
Principle 9: The organization identifies and assesses 
changes that could significantly impact the system of 
internal control.
Points of Focus
The following points of focus may assist management in determining whether this prin -
ciple is present and functioning:
 • Assesses Changes in the External Environment —The risk identification 
process considers changes to the regulatory, economic, and physical environ -
ment in which the entity operates.
 • Assesses Changes in the Business Model —The organization considers the 
potential impacts of new business lines, dramatically altered compositions 
of existing business lines, acquired or divested business operations on the 
system of internal control, rapid growth, changing reliance on foreign geogra
-
phies, and new technologies.
 • Assesses Changes in Leadership —The organization considers changes in 
management and respective attitudes and philosophies on the system of 
internal control.
Assessing Change 
As economic, industry, and regulatory environments change, the scope and nature of 
an entity’s leadership, priorities, business model, organization, business processes, and 
activities need to adapt and evolve. Internal control effective within one set of condi -
tions may not necessarily be effective when those conditions change significantly. As 
part of risk assessment, management identifies changes that could significantly impact 
the entity’s system of internal control and takes action as necessary. Thus, every entity 
will require a process to identify and assess those internal and external factors that can 
significantly affect its ability to achieve its objectives. 
This process will parallel, or be a part of, the entity’s regular risk assessment process. 
It involves identifying the changes to any significant assumption or condition. It requires 
having controls in place to identify and communicate changes that can affect the 
entity’s objectives—and assess the associated risks. Such analysis includes identifying 
potential causes of achieving or failing to achieve an objective, assessing the likelihood 
that such causes will occur, evaluating the probable effect on achievement of the objec -
tives, and considering the degree to which the risk can be managed.
Although the process by which an entity manages change is similar to, if not a part of, 
its regular risk assessment process, it is discussed separately. This is because it is 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
83
324 
325 
326 
327 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
critically important to effective internal control and because it can too easily be over -
looked or given insufficient attention in the course of dealing with everyday issues.
Management develops approaches to identify significant changes in any material 
assumption or condition that have taken place or will shortly occur. To the extent prac -
ticable, these mechanisms are forward looking, so an entity can anticipate and plan for 
significant changes. Early warning systems should be in place to identify information 
signaling new risks that can have a significant impact on the entity. Management also 
develops and implements controls relating to the conduct of such approaches.
This focus on change is founded on the premise that, because of their potential impact, 
certain conditions should be the subject of special consideration. The extent to which 
such conditions require management’s attention, of course, depends on the effect they 
may have in particular circumstances. 
The External Environment 
 • Changing External Environment —A changing regulatory or economic envi -
ronment can result in increased competitive pressures, changes in operating 
requirements, and significantly different risks. Large-scale operations, report
-
ing, and compliance failures by one entity may result in the rapid introduction 
of broad new regulations. For instance, the release of harmful materials near 
populated or environmentally sensitive areas may result in new industry-
wide transportation restrictions that impact an entity’s shipping logistics; the 
external information that is viewed as having poor transparency may result 
in enhanced regulatory reporting requirements for all publicly traded compa
-
nies; and the poor treatment of elderly patients in a care facility may prompt 
additional care requirements for all care facilities. Each of these changes 
may require an organization to closely examine the design of its internal 
control system.
 • Changing Physical Environment—Natural disasters directly impacting the 
entity, supply chain, and other business partners may result in elevated 
risks that an entity needs to consider to sustain its business. An organiza
-
tion, for example, may need to find alternative sources of raw material or 
move production.
Business Model
 • Changing Business Model —When an entity enters new business lines, alters 
the delivery of its services through new outsourced relationships, or dramati -
cally alters the composition of existing business lines, previously effective 
internal controls may no longer be relevant. The composition of the risks 
initially assessed as the basis for establishing internal controls may have 
changed, or the potential impact of those risks may have increased so that 
prior internal controls are no longer sufficient. Some financial services organi
-
zations, for example, may have expanded into new products and concentra -
tions without focusing on how to respond to changes in the associated risks 
of their products.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
84
328 
329 Post Public Exposure Version
Components of Internal Control | Risk Assessment
 • Significant Acquisitions and Divestitures —When an entity decides to acquire 
business operations, it may need to review and standardize internal controls 
across the expanded entity. Controls in place in the pre-acquisition operations 
may not be well developed, suitable for the newly combined entity, or scalable 
to operation in the new business. Similarly, when an operation is disposed of, 
the level of acceptable variation may change in operations, and materiality 
may decrease. In addition, certain entity-level controls at the disposed busi
-
ness operation may no longer be present. Both the acquisition and divesture 
of a business may require the organization to review and possibly revise its 
internal controls to support the achievement of objectives as appropriate to 
the restructured entity. 
 • Foreign Operations—The expansion or acquisition of foreign operations 
carries new and often unique risks. Developing business in new geographies 
or outsourcing operations to foreign locations may help the business to grow 
and/or reduce costs, but it may also present new challenges and alter the type 
and extent of the risks. Operating in unfamiliar markets poses risk because 
there are different customs and practices. For instance, the control environ
-
ment in a new environment is likely to be influenced by the local culture and 
customs. Business risks may result from factors unique to the local economy 
and regulatory environment and channels of communication. 
 • Rapid Growth—When operations expand significantly and quickly, existing 
structures, business processes, information systems, or resources may be 
strained to the point where internal controls break down. For instance, adding 
manufacturing shifts to meet demand or increasing back-office personnel may 
result in those responsible for supervision being unable to adapt to the higher 
activity levels and maintain adequate control.
 • New Technology—When new technologies are incorporated into production, 
service delivery processes, or supporting information systems, internal con
-
trols will likely need to be modified. For instance, introducing sales capabilities 
through mobile devices may require access controls specific to that technol -
ogy as well as changes in controls over shipping processes.
Leadership Changes
 • Significant Personnel Changes —A member of senior management new to an 
entity may not understand the entity’s culture and reflect a different philoso -
phy or may focus solely on performance to the exclusion of control-related 
activities. For instance, a newly hired chief executive officer focusing on 
revenue growth may send a message that a prior focus on effective inter
-
nal control is now less important. Further, high turnover of personnel, in the 
absence of effective training and supervision, can result in breakdowns. For 
instance, a company that reduces its staffing levels by 25% in an attempt to 
reduce costs may erode the overall internal control structure.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
85Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
86Post Public Exposure Version
Components of Internal Control | Control Activities
Chapter Summary 
Control activities are the actions established through policies and pro-
cedures that help ensure that management’s directives to mitigate risks 
to the achievement of objectives are carried out. Control activities are 
performed at all levels of the entity, at various stages within business 
processes, and over the technology environment. They may be preven-
tive or detective in nature and may encompass a range of manual and 
automated activities such as authorizations and approvals, verifications, 
reconciliations, and business performance reviews. Segregation of du-
ties is typically built into the selection and development of control activi-
ties. Where segregation of duties is not practical, management selects 
and develops alternative control activities. 
Principles relating to the Control Activities component
10. The organization selects and develops control activities that 
contribute to the mitigation of risks to the achievement of objectives 
to acceptable levels.
11. The organization selects and develops general control activities over 
technology to support the achievement of objectives.
12. The organization deploys control activities through policies that 
establish what is expected and in procedures that put policies 
into action. 
7.  Control Activities
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
87
330 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
Introduction
Control activities serve as mechanisms 
for managing the achievement of an 
entity’s objectives and are very much 
a part of the processes by which an 
entity strives to achieve those objec -
tives. They do not exist simply for their 
own sake or because having them is 
the right or proper thing to do.
Control activities can support one or 
more of the entity’s operations, report -
ing, and compliance objectives. For 
example, an online retailer’s controls 
over the security of its information 
technology affect the processing of 
accurate and valid transactions with 
consumers, the protection of consum -
ers’ confidential credit card information, and the availability and security of its website. 
In this case, control activities are necessary to support the reporting, compliance, and 
operations objectives.
Selects and Develops Control Activities 
Principle 10: The organization selects and develops 
control activities that contribute to the mitigation of risks 
to the achievement of objectives to acceptable levels.
Points of Focus
The following points of focus may assist management in determining whether this prin -
ciple is present and functioning:
 • Integrates with Risk Assessment —Control activities help ensure that risk 
responses that address and mitigate risks are carried out.
 • Considers Entity-Specific Factors —Management considers how the environ -
ment, complexity, nature, and scope of its operations, as well as the specific 
characteristics of its organization, affect the selection and development of 
control activities.
 • Determines Relevant Business Processes —Management determines which 
relevant business processes require control activities. 
 • Evaluates a Mix of Control Activity Types —Control activities include a range 
and variety of controls and may include a balance of approaches to mitigate 
risks, considering both manual and automated controls, and preventive and 
detective controls.
Function
Control Environment
Risk Assessment
Control Activities
Information & Communication
Monitoring Activities
Operations
Entity Level
Division
Operating Unit
Reporting Compliance
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
88
331 
332 
333 Post Public Exposure Version
Components of Internal Control | Control Activities
 • Considers at What Level Activities Are Applied —Management considers 
control activities at various levels in the entity. 
 • Addresses Segregation of Duties —Management segregates incompatible 
duties, and where such segregation is not practical management selects and 
develops alternative control activities.
Integration with Risk Assessment
Control activities support all the components of internal control, but are particularly 
aligned with the Risk Assessment component. Along with assessing risks, manage -
ment identifies and puts into effect actions needed to carry out specific risk responses. 
Typically, control activities are not needed when an entity chooses to either accept or 
avoid a specific risk. There may, however, be instances where the organization decides 
to avoid a risk and chooses to develop control activities to avoid that risk. The action 
to reduce or share a risk serves as a focal point for selecting and developing control 
activities. The nature and extent of the risk response and any associated control 
activities will depend, at least in part, on the desired level of risk mitigation acceptable 
to management. 
Control activities are those actions that help ensure that responses to assessed risks, 
as well as other management directives, such as establishing standards of conduct in 
the Control Environment, are carried out properly and in a timely manner. For example, a 
company sets an operations objective “to meet or exceed sales targets for the ensuing 
reporting period,” and management identifies a risk that the organization’s personnel 
have insufficient knowledge about current and potential customers’ needs. Manage -
ment’s response to address this identified risk includes developing buying histories 
for existing customers and undertaking market research initiatives to increase the 
organization’s understanding of how to attract potential customers. Control activities 
might include tracking the progress of the development of the customer buying histo -
ries against established timetables, and taking steps to help ensure the quality of the 
reported marketing data. 
Relevant Business Processes
When determining what actions to put in place to mitigate risk, management considers 
all aspects of the entity’s internal control components and the relevant business pro -
cesses, information technology, and locations where control activities are needed. This 
may require considering control activities outside the operating unit, including shared 
service or data centers, and processes or functions performed in outsourced service 
providers. For example, entities may need to establish control activities to address the 
integrity of the information sent to and received from the outsourced service provider.
Entity-Specific Factors
Because each entity has its own set of objectives and implementation approaches, 
there will be differences in objectives, risk, risk responses, and related control activities. 
Even if two entities have identical objectives and structures, their control activities could 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
89
334 
335 
336 
337 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
be different. Each entity is managed by different people with different skills who use 
individual judgment in effecting internal control. Moreover, controls reflect the environ -
ment and industry in which an entity operates, as well as the complexity of its organiza -
tion, its history and its culture, nature, and scope of operations.
Entity-specific factors can impact the control activities needed to support the system of 
internal control. For instance:
 • The environment and complexity of an entity, and the nature and scope of its 
operations, both physically and logically, affect its control activities. 
 • Highly regulated entities generally have more complex risk responses and 
control activities than less-regulated entities. 
 • The scope and nature of risk responses and control activities for multinational 
entities with diverse operations generally address a more complex internal 
control structure than those of a domestic entity with less-varied activities. 
 • An entity with a sophisticated enterprise resource planning system will have 
different control activities than an entity that uses an off-the-shelf computer 
accounting system. 
 • An entity with decentralized operations and an emphasis on local autonomy 
and innovation presents different control circumstances than another whose 
operations are constant and highly centralized. 
Business Process Control Activities 
Business processes are established across the entity to enable organizations to 
achieve their objectives. These business processes may be common to all businesses 
(such as purchasing, payables, or sales processing) or unique to a particular industry 
(such as claims processing, trust services, or drilling operations). Each of these pro -
cesses transforms inputs into outputs through a series of transactions or activities.
11 
Control activities that directly support the actions to mitigate transaction process -
ing risks in an entity’s business processes are often called “application controls” or 
“transaction controls.”
12
Transaction controls are the most fundamental control activities in an entity since 
they directly address risk responses in the business processes in place to meet man -
agement’s objectives. Transaction controls are selected and developed wherever 
the business process may reside, ranging from the organization’s financial consoli -
dations process at the entity level to the customer support process at a particular 
operating unit. 
A business process will likely cover many objectives and sub-objectives, each with 
its own set of risks and risk responses. A common way to consolidate these business 
11 The term “transactions” tends to be associated with financial processes (e.g., payables transactions), 
while “activities” is more generally applied to operational or compliance processes. For the purposes of 
the Framework, the term “transactions” applies to both.
12 The term “transaction controls” is used in the Framework to refer to both manual and automated controls.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 201290
338 
339 
340 
341 Post Public Exposure Version
Components of Internal Control | Control Activities
process risks into a more manageable form is to group them according to information-
processing objectives13 of completeness, accuracy, and validity.
If these information-processing objectives are achieved for each of the transactions 
within a particular business process, then the business process sub-objectives will 
likely be achieved. 
The following information-processing objective definitions are used in the Framework:
 • Accuracy—Transactions are recorded at the correct amount in the right 
account (and on a timely basis) at each stage of processing. For instance, 
transaction controls over data elements and master data, such as the item 
price in the vendor master file, can address the accuracy of processing a pur
-
chasing transaction. Accuracy in the context of an operational process can be 
defined to cover the broader concept of quality (e.g. the accuracy and preci
-
sion of a manufactured part). 
 • Completeness—Transactions that occur are recorded. For instance, an organi-
zation can mitigate the risk of not processing all transactions with vendors by 
selecting actions and transaction controls that support that all invoice trans
-
actions are processed within the accounts payable business process.
 • Validity—Recorded transactions represent economic events that actually 
occurred and were executed according to prescribed procedures. Validity is 
generally achieved through control activities that include the authorization of 
transactions as specified by an organization’s established policies and pro
-
cedures (i.e., approval by a person having the authority to do so). In an opera -
tional context, the parts used in making an automobile are obtained from an 
authorized supplier. 
The risk of untimely transaction processing may be considered a separate risk or 
included as part of the completeness or accuracy information-processing objective. 
Restricted access is an important consideration for most business processes and is 
often included as an information-processing objective because without appropriately 
restricting access over transactions in a business process, the control activities in that 
business process can be overridden and segregation of duties may not be achieved.
Restricted access is especially important where technology is integral to an organiza -
tion’s processes or business. For example, many organizations use enterprise resource 
planning (ERP) applications. Configuring the security in these applications to address 
restricted access can become very complex and requires technical knowledge and a 
structured approach. Considerations for restricted access are discussed in more detail 
under the Security Management Processes section of Principle 11.
While the information-processing objectives are most often associated with financial 
processes and transactions, the concept can be applied to any activity in an organiza -
tion. For instance, a candy maker will strive to have control activities in place to help 
13 While related in concept and terminology, information-processing objectives and financial statement asser-
tions are different. Financial statement assertions are specific to the reliability of financial reporting, while 
information-processing objectives apply to transaction processing.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
91
342 
343 
344 
345 
346 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
ensure that all the ingredients are included in its cooking process (completeness), in the 
right amounts (accuracy), and from approved vendors whose products passed quality 
testing (validity). 
As another example, the information-processing objectives and related control activities 
also apply to management’s decision-making processes over critical judgments and 
estimates. In this situation, management should consider the completeness of the iden -
tification of significant factors affecting estimates for which it must develop and support 
assumptions. Similarly, management should consider the validity and reasonableness of 
those assumptions and the accuracy of its estimation models. 
This does not mean that if management considers the information-processing objec -
tives the organization will never make a faulty judgment or estimate; judgments and 
estimates are always subject to human error. However, when appropriate control activi -
ties are in place, and the information management uses is, in its judgment, accurate, 
complete, and valid, then the likelihood of better decision making is improved. 
Types of Transaction Control Activities
A variety of transaction control activities can be selected and developed, including 
the following:
 • Authorizations and Approvals —An authorization affirms that a transaction is 
valid (i.e., it represents an actual economic event). An authorization typically 
takes the form of an approval by a higher level of management or of verifica
-
tion and a determination if the transaction is valid. For example, a supervi -
sor approves an expense report after reviewing whether the expenses seem 
reasonable and within policy. An example of an automated approval is where 
an invoice unit cost is automatically compared to the related purchase order 
unit cost within a pre-established tolerance level. Invoices within the toler
-
ance level are automatically approved for payment. Those invoices outside the 
tolerance level are flagged for additional investigation.
 • Verifications—Verifications compare two or more items with each other or 
compare an item with a policy, and perform a follow-up action when the 
two items do not match or the item is not consistent with policy. Examples 
include computer matching or a reasonableness check. Verifications generally 
address the completeness, accuracy, or validity of processing transactions.
 • Physical Controls— Equipment, inventories, securities, cash, and other assets 
are secured physically (e.g., in locked or guarded storage areas with physical 
access restricted to authorized personnel) and are periodically counted and 
compared with amounts shown on control records.
 • Controls over Standing Data—Standing data, such as the price master file, 
is often used to support the processing of transactions within a business 
process. Control activities over the processes to populate, update, and main
-
tain the accuracy, completeness, and validity of this data are put in place by 
the organization. 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
92
347 
348 
349 Post Public Exposure Version
Components of Internal Control | Control Activities
 • Reconciliations—Reconciliations compare two or more data elements and, if 
differences are identified, action is taken to bring the data into agreement. For 
example, a reconciliation is performed over daily cash flows with net positions 
reported centrally for overnight transfer and investment. Reconciliations gen
-
erally address the completeness and/or accuracy of processing transactions.
 • Supervisory Controls — Supervisory controls assess whether other transac -
tion control activities (i.e., particular verifications, reconciliations, authoriza -
tions and approvals, controls over standing data, and physical control activi -
ties) are being performed completely, accurately, and according to policy 
and procedures. Management normally uses judgment to select and develop 
supervisory controls over higher risk transactions. For instance, a supervisor 
may review
14 whether an accounting clerk performs a reconciliation according 
to policy. This can be a high-level review (e.g., checking if the reconciliation 
spreadsheet has been completed) or a more detailed review, (e.g., checking to 
see if any reconciling items have been followed up and corrected or an appro
-
priate explanation is provided). 
Control activities can be preventive or detective, and organizations usually select a 
mix. The major difference is the timing of when the control activity occurs. A preventive 
control is designed to avoid an unintended event or result at the time of initial occur -
rence (e.g., upon initially recording a financial transaction or upon initiating a manu -
facturing process). A detective control is designed to discover an unintended event or 
result after the initial processing has occurred but before the ultimate objective has 
concluded (e.g., issuing financial reports or completing a manufacturing process). In 
both cases the critical part of the control activity is the action taken to correct or avoid 
an unintended event or result.
When selecting and developing control activities, the organization considers the 
precision of the control activity—that is, how exact it will be in preventing or detect -
ing an unintended event or result. For example, suppose the purchasing manager of a 
company reviews all purchases over $1 million. This control activity may mitigate the 
risk of errors over $1 million, helping to cap the entity’s exposure, but it does not cover 
all transactions. In contrast, an automated edit check that compares prices on all pur -
chase orders to the price master file and produces a report of variances that is reviewed 
by a purchasing supervisor addresses accuracy for all transactions. Control activity 
precision is closely linked to the organization’s risk tolerance for a particular objective 
(i.e., the tighter the risk tolerance, the more precise the actions to mitigate the risk and 
the related control activities need to be).
When selecting and developing control activities it is important to understand what a 
particular control is designed to accomplish (i.e., the specific risk response the control 
addresses) and whether it has been developed and implemented as designed to miti -
gate the risk . For example, in one entity sales orders undergo an automated or manual 
edit check that matches a customer’s billing address and zip code to information in a 
standing data file of valid customer relationships. If the match fails, corrective action is 
taken. This control activity helps achieve the accuracy information-processing objective. 
14 Supervisory reviews can be either control activities or monitoring activities. The difference is discussed 
further in Chapter 9, Monitoring Activities.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
93
350 
351 
352 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
However, it does not help achieve the completeness information-processing objective 
(i.e., whether all approved sales orders are being processed). Another control activity, 
such as sequentially numbering approved sales orders and then checking if all have 
been processed, would be needed to address completeness.
Technology and Control Activities
Control activities and technology 15 relate to each other in two ways: 
 • Technology Supports Business Processes —When technology is embedded 
into the entity’s business processes, such as robotic automation in a manu -
facturing plant, control activities are needed to mitigate the risk that the tech -
nology itself will not continue to operate properly to support the achievement 
of the organization’s objectives. 
 • Technology Used to Automate Control Activities —Many control activities in an 
entity are partially or wholly automated using technology. These procedures 
are known as automated control activities or automated controls in the Frame
-
work. Automated controls include financial process–related automated trans -
action controls, such as a three-way match performed within an ERP system 
supporting the procurement and payables sub-processes, and computer
-
ized controls in operational or compliance processes, such as checking the 
proper functioning of a power plant. Sometimes the control activity is purely 
automated, such as when a system detects an error in the transmission of 
data, rejects the transmission, and automatically requests a new transmission. 
Other times there is a combination of automated and manual procedures. 
For example, the system automatically detects the error in transmission, but 
someone has to manually force the re-transmission. In other cases, a manual 
control depends on information from a system, such as computer-generated 
reports supporting a budget-to-actual analysis. 
Most business processes have a mix of manual and automated controls, depending on 
the availability of technology in the entity. Automated controls tend to be more reliable, 
subject to whether technology general controls, discussed later in this chapter, are 
implemented and operating, since they are less susceptible to human judgment and 
error, and are typically more efficient. 
Those control activities over technology that are designed to support the continued 
operation of technology and automated control activities are known as “technology 
general controls” and are covered in Principle 11.
Control Activities at Different Levels 
In addition to controls that operate at the transaction-processing level, the organiza -
tion selects and develops a mix of control activities that operate more broadly and that 
typically take place at higher levels in the organization. These broader control activities 
15 “Technology” is a broad term. In the Framework its use applies to technology that is computerized, includ-
ing software applications running on a computer, manufacturing controls systems, etc.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
94
353 
354 
355 
356 
357 Post Public Exposure Version
Components of Internal Control | Control Activities
usually are business performance or analytical reviews 16 involving comparisons of differ-
ent sets of operating or financial data. The relationships are analyzed and investigated 
and corrective actions are taken when not in line with policy or expectations. Transac -
tion controls and business performance reviews at different levels work together to 
provide a layered approach to addressing the organization’s risks and are integral to the 
mix of controls within the organization. 
For example, an operating unit may have business performance reviews over the pro -
curement process that include purchase price variances, the percentage of orders that 
are rush purchase orders, and the percentage of returns to total purchase orders. By 
investigating any unexpected results or unusual trends, management may detect cir -
cumstances where the underlying procurement objectives may not have been achieved. 
Another form of business performance review occurs when senior management con -
ducts reviews of actual performance versus budgets, forecasts, prior periods, and 
competitor results. Major initiatives are tracked—such as marketing programs, improve -
ments to production processes, and cost containment or reduction programs—to 
measure the extent to which targets are being reached. Management reviews the status 
of new product development, joint venture opportunities, or financing needs. Manage -
ment actions taken to analyze and follow up on such reporting are control activities. 
The scope of a business performance review (i.e., how many detailed risks it covers) will 
tend to be greater than for a transaction control. Also, the span of the review across the 
organization will tend to be greater as they are usually performed at higher levels in the 
organization than a transaction control. However, to effectively respond to a set of risks, 
the review must be precise enough to detect all errors that exceed the risk tolerance. A 
transaction control may address a single specific risk, whereas an operating unit busi -
ness performance review typically addresses a number of risks. For example, the busi -
ness performance review over rush purchase orders covers several risks in the procure -
ment process but may not address risks concerning the accuracy and completeness of 
processing specific transactions. 
Most business performance reviews are detective in nature because they typically occur 
after transactions have already taken place and been processed. So while higher-level 
controls are important in the mix of control activities, it is difficult to fully and efficiently 
address business process risks without transaction controls.
Segregating Duties 
When selecting and developing control activities management should consider whether 
duties are divided or segregated among different people to reduce the risk of error 
or inappropriate or fraudulent actions. Such consideration should include the legal 
16 Business performance reviews can be either control activities or monitoring activities. The difference is 
discussed further in Chapter 9, Monitoring Activities.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
95
358 
359 
360 
361 
362 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
environment, regulatory requirements, and stakeholder expectations. This segrega-
tion of duties generally entails dividing the responsibility for recording, authorizing, 
and approving transactions, and handling the related asset. For instance, a manager 
authorizing credit sales is not responsible for maintaining accounts receivable records 
or handling cash receipts. If one person is able to perform all these activities he or she 
could, for example, create a fictitious sale that could go undetected. Similarly, sales -
persons should not have the ability to modify product price files or commission rates. 
A control activity in this area could include reviewing access requests to the system to 
determine whether segregation of duties is being maintained. For example, a request 
for the salesperson to have system access to modify product price files or commission 
rates should be rejected. 
The segregation of duties can address important risks relating to management over -
ride. Management override circumvents existing controls and is an often-used means 
of committing fraud. The segregation of duties is fundamental to mitigating fraud risks 
because it reduces, but can’t absolutely prevent, the possibility of one person acting 
alone. However, there is always the risk that management can override control activities. 
Collusion is needed to perform fraudulent activities when key process responsibilities 
are divided between at least two employees. Also, the segregation of duties reduces 
errors by having more than one person performing or reviewing transactions in a 
process, increasing the likelihood of an error being found.
However, sometimes segregation is not practical, cost effective, or feasible. For 
instance, small companies may lack sufficient resources to achieve ideal segregation, 
and the cost of hiring additional staff may be prohibitive. In these situations, manage -
ment institutes alternative
17 control activities. In the example above, if the salesperson 
can modify product price files, a detective control activity can be put in place to have 
personnel unrelated to the sales function periodically review whether and under what 
circumstances the salesperson changed prices. 
17 The Framework prefers the term “alternative controls” over “compensating controls.” The latter term has 
been used to describe additional control activities put in place when segregation of duties could not be 
achieved. However, this term has evolved to refer to control activities that mitigate the impact of an identi-
fied control deficiency when evaluating the operating effectiveness of controls and is used in this context 
in the Framework.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
96
363 
364 Post Public Exposure Version
Components of Internal Control | Control Activities
Selects and Develops General Controls over 
Technology 
Principle 11: The organization selects and develops 
general control activities over technology to support the 
achievement of objectives.
Points of Focus
The following points of focus may assist management in determining whether this prin -
ciple is present and functioning:
 • Determines Dependency between the Use of Technology in Business 
Processes and Technology General Controls —Management understands 
and determines the dependency and linkage between business processes, 
automated control activities, and technology general controls.
 • Establishes Relevant Technology Infrastructure Control Activities —Man
-
agement selects and develops control activities over the technology infra -
structure, which are designed and implemented to help ensure the complete -
ness, accuracy, and availability of technology processing.
 • Establishes Relevant Security Management Process Control Activities —
Management selects and develops control activities that are designed and 
implemented to restrict technology access rights to authorized users com
-
mensurate with their job responsibilities and to protect the entity’s assets from 
external threats.
 • Establishes Relevant Technology Acquisition, Development, and Main
-
tenance Process Control Activities —Management selects and develops 
control activities over the acquisition, development, and maintenance of tech -
nology and its infrastructure to achieve management’s objectives.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
97
365 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
Dependency between the Use of Technology in Business 
Processes and Technology General Controls
The reliability of technology within business processes, including automated controls, 
depends on the presence and proper functioning of the general control activities over 
technology, referred to from here on as technology general controls.
18 For instance, an 
automated matching and edit check examines data entered on-line. If something does 
not match, or is in the wrong format, immediate feedback is provided so that correc -
tions can be made. Error messages indicate what is wrong with the data, and exception 
reports allow for subsequent follow-up. 
Technology general controls must be deployed for automated controls to work prop -
erly when first developed and implemented (e.g., the automated control mentioned 
above edit checks match data with the right transaction or standing data file, any 
error message completely and accurately reflects what is wrong, and all exceptions 
are reported according to the entity’s policies). Technology general controls also help 
information systems continue to function properly after they are implemented. The 
automated matching transaction control will work properly only if technology general 
controls are designed, implemented, and operating so that the right files are being used 
in the matching process and the files are complete and accurate. Also, proper security 
limits access to the system to only those who need it, reducing the possibility of unau -
thorized edits to the files. Control activities over any changes to the technology help 
ensure that it continues to function as designed.
As with other entity functions, processes are put in place to select, develop, operate, 
and maintain an entity’s technology. These processes may be limited to a few activities 
over the use of standard technology purchased from an external party (e.g., a spread -
sheet application) or expanded to support both in-house and externally developed tech -
nology. Selected and developed control activities contribute to the mitigation of specific 
risks surrounding the use of technology processes. 
Technology General Controls
Technology general controls include control activities over the technology infrastructure, 
security management, and technology acquisition, development, and maintenance. 
They apply to all technology—from information technology applications on a mainframe 
computer, to client/server, desktop, end-user computing, portable computer, and 
mobile device environments, to operational technology, such as plant control systems 
or manufacturing robotics. The extent and rigor of control activities will vary for each of 
these technologies depending on various factors, such as the complexity of the technol -
ogy and risk of the underlying business process being supported. Similar to business 
transaction controls, technology general controls may include both manual and auto -
mated control activities.
18 Terminology typically used to describe these controls includes “general computer controls,” “general con-
trols,” or “information technology controls.” The term “technology general controls” is used here to refer to 
“general control activities over technology.”
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 201298
366 
367 
368 
369 Post Public Exposure Version
Components of Internal Control | Control Activities
Technology Infrastructure
Technology requires an infrastructure in which to operate, ranging from communication 
networks for linking technologies to each other and the rest of the entity, to the com -
puting resources for applications to operate, to the electricity to power the technology. 
The technology infrastructure can be complex. It may be shared by different business 
units within the entity (e.g., a shared service center) or outsourced either to third-party 
service organizations or to location-independent technology services (e.g., cloud com -
puting). These complexities present risks that need to be understood and addressed. 
Given the broad range of possible changes in the use of technology likely to continue 
into the future, the organization needs to track these changes and assess and respond 
to the new risks. 
Control activities support the completeness, accuracy, and availability of technology 
processing. Whether the infrastructure is batch scheduling for a mainframe computer, 
real-time processing in a client/server environment, mobile wireless devices, or a 
sophisticated communications network, the technology is actively checked for prob -
lems and corrective action taken when needed. Maintaining technology often includes 
backup and recovery procedures, as well as disaster recovery plans, depending on the 
risks and consequences of a full or partial outage. 
Security Management Processes
Security management includes sub-processes and control activities over who and what 
has access to an entity’s technology, including who has the ability to execute transac -
tions. They generally cover access rights at the data, operating system (system soft -
ware), network, application, and physical layers. Security controls over access protects 
an entity from inappropriate access and unauthorized use of the system and supports 
segregation of duties. By preventing unauthorized use of and changes to the system, 
data and program integrity are protected from malicious intent (e.g., someone break -
ing into the technology to commit fraud, vandalism, or terrorism) or a simple error (e.g., 
a well-intentioned employee using a vacationing colleague’s account to get work done, 
and executing a transaction erroneously or deleting a file because he or she is not prop -
erly trained in the work). 
Security threats can come from both internal and external sources. The external threat 
is particularly important for entities that depend on telecommunications networks 
and the Internet. Technology users, customers, and malicious parties may be halfway 
around the world or down the hall. The many potential uses of technology and points 
of entry underscore the importance of security management. External threats have 
become prevalent in today’s highly interconnected business environments, and con -
tinual effort is required to address these risks. 
Internal threats may come from former or disgruntled employees who pose unique risks 
because they may be both motivated to work against the entity and better equipped to 
succeed in carrying out a malicious act because they have greater access and knowl -
edge of the entity’s security management systems and processes.
User access to technology is generally controlled through authentication control activi -
ties where a unique user identification or token is authenticated against an approved 
list. Technology general controls are designed to allow only authorized users on an 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
99
370 
371 
372 
373 
374 
375 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
approved list. These control activities generally employ a policy of restricting authorized 
users to the applications or functions commensurate with their job responsibilities and 
supporting an appropriate segregation of duties. Control activities are used to check 
requests for access against the approved list. Other control activities are in place to 
update access when employees change job functions or leave the entity. A periodic 
review of access rights against the policy is often used to check if access remains 
appropriate. Access also needs to be controlled when different technology elements are 
connected to each other.
Technology Acquisition, Development, and Maintenance Processes
Technology general controls support the acquisition, development, and maintenance of 
technology. For example, a technology development methodology
19 provides a struc-
ture for system design and implementation, outlining specific phases, documentation 
requirements, approvals, and checkpoints with controls over the acquisition, develop -
ment, and maintenance of technology. The methodology provides appropriate con -
trols over changes to technology, which may involve requiring authorization of change 
requests, reviewing the changes, approvals, and testing results, and implementing 
protocols to determine whether changes are made properly.
In some companies the development methodology covers the continuum from large 
development projects to the smallest changes. In other companies there is one distinct 
process for developing new technology and a separate process for change manage -
ment. In either case, a change management process will be in place to track changes 
from initiation to final disposition. Changes may arise as a result of a problem in the 
technology that needs to be fixed or a request from the user community.
The technology general controls included in a development methodology will vary 
depending on the risks of the technology initiative. A large or complex development 
initiative will generally have greater risks than a small or simple initiative. The extent and 
rigor of the controls over the initiative should be sized accordingly.
One alternative to in-house development is the use of packaged software. Technology 
vendors provide flexible, integrated systems allowing customization through the use 
of built-in options. Many technology development methodologies address the acquisi -
tion of vendor packages as a development alternative and include the necessary steps 
to provide control over their selection and implementation. Once selected and imple -
mented, technology general controls outlined above would also apply to the ongoing 
development and maintenance of technology,
Another alternative is outsourcing. While in principle the same considerations apply 
whether controls are performed internally or by an outsourced service provider, out -
sourcing presents unique risks and often requires selecting and developing additional 
controls over the completeness, accuracy, and validity of information submitted to and 
received from the outsourced service provider. 
19 There are many names for this process. One common name is “systems development life cycle” (SDLC).
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
100
376 
377 
378 
379 
380 Post Public Exposure Version
Components of Internal Control | Control Activities
Deploys through Policies and Procedures 
Principle 12: The organization deploys control activities 
through policies that establish what is expected and 
procedures that put policies into action. 
Points of Focus
The following points of focus may assist management in determining whether this prin -
ciple is present and functioning:
 • Establishes Policies and Procedures to Support Deployment of Manage -
ment’s Directives—Management establishes control activities that are built 
into business processes and employees’ day-to-day activities through policies 
establishing what is expected and relevant procedures specifying actions.
 • Establishes Responsibility and Accountability for Executing Policies and 
Procedures—Management establishes responsibility and accountability for 
control activities with management (or other designated personnel) of the 
business unit or function in which the relevant risks reside.
 • Performs in a Timely Manner—Responsible personnel perform control activi
-
ties in a timely manner as defined by the policies and procedures.
 • Takes Corrective Action—Responsible personnel investigate and act on 
matters identified as a result of executing control activities. 
 • Performs Using Competent Personnel —Competent personnel with sufficient 
authority perform control activities with diligence and continuing focus.
 • Reassesses Policies and Procedures —Management periodically reviews 
control activities to determine their continued relevance, and refreshes them 
when necessary.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
101
381 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
Policies and Procedures
Policies reflect management’s statement of what should be done to effect control. Such 
statements may be documented, explicitly stated in communications, or implied through 
management’s actions and decisions. Procedures consist of actions that implement 
a policy.
Control activities specifically relate to those policies and procedures that contribute to 
the mitigation of risks to the achievement of objectives to acceptable levels. A policy, for 
instance, might call for review of customer trading activities by a securities dealer retail 
branch manager. The procedure is the review itself, performed in a timely manner and 
with attention given to factors set forth in the policy, such as the nature and volume of 
securities traded, and their relation to customer net worth and age.
Policies and procedures are often communicated orally. Unwritten policies can be effec -
tive where the policy is a long-standing and well-understood practice, and in smaller 
organizations where communications channels involve limited management layers and 
close interaction with and supervision of personnel. Though a cost-effective alternative 
for some entities, unwritten policies and procedures can be easier to circumvent, costly 
to the organization if there is turnover in personnel, and reduce accountability. When 
subject to external party review, policies and procedures would be expected to be for -
mally documented.
20
But whether or not a policy is in writing, it must establish clear responsibility and 
accountability, which ultimately resides with the management of the entity and subunit 
where the risk resides. Procedures should be clear on the responsibilities of person -
nel performing the control activity. Also, policies need to be deployed thoughtfully and 
conscientiously, and the related procedures must be timely and be performed diligently 
and consistently by competent personnel. 
Timeliness
The procedures should include the timing of when a control activity and any follow-up 
corrective actions are performed. Untimely procedures can reduce the usefulness of the 
control activity. For example, a regular review of user accounts for inappropriate access 
rights is conducted by the business process owner on a timely basis to reduce the 
risk of unauthorized access to an acceptable level. Longer intervals between reviews 
increase the potential for untimely detection of unauthorized access.
Corrective Action
In conducting a control activity, matters identified for follow-up should be investigated 
and, if appropriate, corrective action taken. For example, consider a case where a rec -
onciliation of cash accounts detects a discrepancy in one of the accounts. The account -
ing clerk follows up with the person in charge of recording cash and determines that 
a cash receipt was not posted properly. The receipt is reapplied and the correction is 
reflected in the reconciliation. 
20 See the discussion on documentation in Chapter 4, Additional Framework Considerations.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
102
382 
383 
384 
385 
386 
387 Post Public Exposure Version
Components of Internal Control | Control Activities
Competence 
A well-designed control activity generally cannot be conducted without competent 
personnel. The level of competency required to perform a control activity will depend on 
factors such as the complexity of the control activity and the complexity and volume of 
the underlying transactions. Furthermore, a procedure will not be useful if performed by 
rote, without a sharp, continuing focus on the risks to which the policy is directed.
Periodic Reassessment
Management should periodically reassess policies and procedures and related control 
activities for continued relevance and effectiveness, unrelated to being responsive to 
significant changes in the entity’s risks or objectives. Significant changes would be 
evaluated through the risk assessment process. Changes in people, process, and tech -
nology may reduce the effectiveness of control activities or make some control activi -
ties redundant. Whenever one of these changes occurs, management should reassess 
the relevance of the existing controls and refresh them when necessary. For example, 
management may upgrade the purchasing module of an ERP system and introduce 
automated transaction control activities that cause the old manual control activities to 
be redundant and, hence, no longer necessary. 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
103
388 
389 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
104Post Public Exposure Version
Components of Internal Control | Information and Communication
Chapter Summary
Information is necessary for the entity to carry out internal control re-
sponsibilities to support the achievement of its objectives. Management 
obtains or generates and uses relevant and quality information from both 
internal and external sources to support the functioning of other compo-
nents of internal control. Communication is the continual, iterative pro-
cess of providing, sharing, and obtaining necessary information. Inter -
nal communication is the means by which information is disseminated 
throughout the organization, flowing up, down, and across the entity. It 
enables personnel to receive a clear message from senior management 
that control responsibilities must be taken seriously. External communi-
cation is twofold: it enables inbound communication of relevant external 
information and provides information to external parties in response to 
requirements and expectations.
Principles relating to the Information and Communica-
tion component
13. The organization obtains or generates and uses relevant, quality 
information to support the functioning of other components of 
internal control.
14. The organization internally communicates information, including 
objectives and responsibilities for internal control, necessary to 
support the functioning of other components of internal control.
15. The organization communicates with external parties regarding 
matters affecting the functioning of other components of 
internal control.
8.  Information and Communication
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
105
390 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
Introduction
The Information and Communica-
tion component of the Framework 
supports the functioning of all com -
ponents of internal control. In com -
bination with the other components, 
information and communication 
supports the achievement of the 
entity’s objectives, including objec -
tives relevant to internal and external 
reporting. Controls within Informa -
tion and Communication support the 
organization’s ability to use the right 
information within the system of inter-
nal control and to carry out internal 
control responsibilities.
Information is the data that is com-
bined and summarized based on relevance to information requirements. Information 
requirements are determined by the ongoing functioning of the other internal control 
components, taking into consideration the expectations of all users, both internal and 
external. Information systems support informed decision making and the functioning 
of the other components of internal control by processing relevant, timely, and quality 
information from internal and external sources. 
Communication enables the organization to share relevant and quality information 
internally and externally. Management communicates information internally to enable 
personnel to understand the entity’s objectives and the importance of their control 
responsibilities. Internal communication facilitates the functioning of other components 
of internal control by sharing information up, down, and across the entity. External com -
munication enables management to obtain and share information between the entity 
and external parties about risks, regulatory matters, changes in circumstances, cus -
tomer satisfaction, and other information relevant to the functioning of the other compo -
nents of internal control. 
An information system is the set of activities, involving people, processes, data and/or 
technology, which enable the organization to obtain, generate, use, and communicate 
transactions and information to maintain accountability and measure and review the 
entity’s performance or progress toward achievement of objectives.
The Framework distinguishes this component from the internal reporting category of 
objectives. Information and Communication is only one component of the Framework. 
Controls within this component help to provide relevant, quality information to support 
all components of internal control. On the other hand, an organization seeking reason -
able assurance regarding a specified reporting objective is achieved through all five 
components of internal control being present and functioning, and operating together. 
Communication relates to sharing information used in designing, implementing, or con -
ducting internal control, or in assessing its effectiveness. Communication can appear 
broad at times (e.g., information communicated about external trends or events), but 
when it is used in the context of the Framework, this communication may enable a user 
to carry out controls within Risk Assessment.
Function
Control Environment
Risk Assessment
Control Activities
Information & Communication
Monitoring Activities
Operations
Entity Level
Division
Operating Unit
Reporting Compliance
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
106
391 
392 
393 
394 
395 
396 Post Public Exposure Version
Components of Internal Control | Information and Communication
Uses Relevant Information
Principle 13: The organization obtains or generates 
and uses relevant, quality information to support the 
functioning of other components of internal control.
Points of Focus
The following points of focus may assist management in determining whether this prin -
ciple is present and functioning:
 • Identifies Information Requirements —A process is in place to identify the 
information required and expected to support the functioning of the other 
components of internal control and the achievement of the entity’s objectives.
 • Captures Internal and External Sources of Data —Information systems 
capture internal and external sources of data.
 • Processes Relevant Data into Information —Information systems process 
and transform relevant data into information.
 • Maintains Quality throughout Processing —Information systems produce 
information that is timely, current, accurate, complete, accessible, protected, 
and verifiable and retained. Information is reviewed to assess its relevance in 
supporting the internal control components.
 • Considers Costs and Benefits —The nature, quantity, and precision of infor
-
mation communicated are commensurate with and support the achievement 
of objectives.
Information Requirements
Information is necessary for the organization to carry out its internal control responsibili -
ties to support the achievement of objectives. Information about the entity’s objectives 
is gathered from board and senior management activities and summarized in a way that 
management and others can understand objectives and their role in their achievement. 
For example, a wholesale distributor found that its managers did not have a solid 
understanding of the key objectives for the organization. The business plan was detailed 
and difficult to concisely communicate. The board of directors worked with senior 
management to summarize the entity’s key objectives into a clear narrative document 
that accompanied internally distributed financial statements. In addition, they provided 
a balanced scorecard that mapped these goals to metrics and actual results, both 
non-financial and financial, on a monthly basis. Feedback from a subsequent employee 
survey indicated that management and other personnel better understood the organiza -
tion’s objectives.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
107
397 
398 
399 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
Obtaining relevant information requires management to identify and define informa -
tion requirements at the relevant level and requisite specificity. Identifying information 
requirements is an iterative and ongoing process that occurs throughout the perfor -
mance of an effective internal control system. 
Management develops and implements controls relating to the identification of relevant 
information that support the functioning of other components. The following examples 
illustrate how information in support of the functioning of other internal control compo -
nents is identified and defined. 
Internal Control Component Example of Information Used 
Control Environment Management performs an annual entity-wide survey of its employees 
to gather information about their personal conduct in relation to the 
entity’s code of conduct. The survey is part of a process that pro -
duces information to support the control environment component and 
may also provide input into the selection, development, implementa -
tion, or maintenance of control activities.
Risk Assessment As a result of changes in customer demands, an entity changes its 
product mix and delivery mechanisms. Expanded on-line sales have 
caused credit card transactions to increase significantly. To assess 
the risk of non-compliance with security and privacy regulations 
associated with credit card information, management gathers infor -
mation about the number of transactions, overall value, and nature of 
data retained for the last fiscal year and evaluates its significance in 
conducting its risk analysis. 
Control Activities Certain equipment used in a high-volume production environment 
deteriorates if it operates longer than a specified time period. To 
maximize equipment lifespan, management obtains and reviews 
the daily up-time logs and compares them to ranges set by senior 
management. The information supports control activities that address 
mitigation procedures required when maximum up-time levels are 
exceeded.
Monitoring Activities A large utility company gathers, processes, and reports accident and 
injury records related to the power generation operating unit. Com -
paring this information with trends in workers’ compensation health 
insurance claims identifies variations from established expectations. 
This may indicate that control activities over the identification, pro -
cessing, reporting, investigation, and resolution of accident and injury 
events may not be functioning as intended. 
Information requirements are established through activities performed in support of the 
other internal control components. These requirements facilitate and direct manage -
ment and other personnel to identify relevant and reliable sources of information and 
underlying data. The amount of information and underlying data available to manage -
ment may be more than is needed because of increased sources of information and 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
108
400 
401 
402 Post Public Exposure Version
Components of Internal Control | Information and Communication
advances in data collection, processing, and storage. In other cases, data may be diffi -
cult to obtain at the relevant level or requisite specificity. Therefore, a clear understand -
ing of the information requirements directs management and other personnel to identify 
relevant and reliable sources of information and data. 
Achieving the right balance between the benefits and the costs to obtain and manage 
information, and the information systems, is a key consideration in establishing an infor -
mation system that meets the entity’s needs.
Information from Relevant Sources
Information is received from a variety of sources and in a variety of forms. The follow -
ing table summarizes examples of internal and external data and sources from which 
management can generate useful information relevant to internal controls.
Examples of Internal Sources of Data Examples of Internal Data
 • Email communications
 • Inspections of production floor processing 
 • Minutes or notes from operating committee 
meetings 
 • Personnel time reporting system
 • Reports from manufacturing systems
 • Responses to customer surveys 
 • Whistle-blower hotline
 • Organizational changes 
 • On-time and quality production experience
 • Actions in response to energy consumption 
metrics
 • Hours incurred on time-based projects
 • Number of units shipped in a month
 • Factors impacting customer attrition rates
 • Complaint on manager’s behavior
Examples of External Sources of Data Examples of External Data
Data received from outsourced service providers 
Industry research reports
Peer company earnings releases
Regulatory bodies
Social media or other blog posts
Trade shows
Whistle-blower hotline
Products shipped from contract manufacturer
Competitor product information
Market and industry metrics
New or expanded requirements
Opinions about the entity
Evolving customer preferences
Claim of misuse of funds, bribery
Management considers a comprehensive scope of potential events, activities, and data 
sources, available internally and from reliable external sources, and selects the most rel -
evant and useful to the current organizational structure, business model, or objectives. 
As change in the entity occurs, the information requirements also change. For example, 
entities operating in a highly dynamic business and economic environment experience 
continual changes such as highly innovative and quick-moving competitors, shifting 
customer expectations, evolving regulatory requirements, globalization, and technology 
innovation. Therefore, management re-evaluates information requirements and adjusts 
to meet its ongoing needs. 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
109
403 
404 
405 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
Processing Data through Information Systems
Organizations develop information systems to source, capture, and process large 
volumes of data from internal and external sources into meaningful, actionable infor -
mation to meet defined information requirements. Information systems encompass a 
combination of people, processes, data, and technology that support business pro -
cesses managed internally as well as those that are supported through relationships 
with outsourced service providers and other parties interacting with the entity. 
Information may be obtained through a variety of forms including manual input or 
compilation, or through the use of information technology such as electronic data inter -
change (EDI) or application programming interfaces (API). Conversations with custom -
ers, suppliers, regulators, and employees are also sources of critical data and informa -
tion needed to identify and assess both risks and opportunities. In some instances, 
information and underlying data captured requires a series of manual and automated 
processes to ensure it is at the relevant level and requisite specificity. In other cases, 
information may be obtained directly from an internal or external source. Manage -
ment develops and implements controls over the integrity of data input into information 
systems and over the completeness and accuracy of processing such data into informa -
tion used by other controls.
The volume of information accessible to the organization presents both opportunities 
and risks. Greater access to information can enhance internal control. On the other 
hand, increased volume of information and underlying data may create additional risks 
such as operational risks caused by inefficiency due to data overload; compliance risks 
associated with laws and regulations around data protection, retention; and privacy and 
security risks arising from the nature of data stored by or on behalf of the entity. 
The nature and extent of information requirements, the complexity and volume of infor -
mation, and the dependence on external parties impacts the range of sophistication of 
information systems, including the extent of technology deployed. Regardless of the 
level of sophistication adopted, information systems represent the end-to-end informa -
tion processing of transactions and data that enable the entity to collect, store, and 
summarize quality and consistent information across the relevant processes, whether 
manual, automated, or a combination of both. 
Information systems developed with integrated, technology-enabled processes provide 
opportunities to enhance the efficiency, speed, and accessibility of information to users. 
Additionally, such information systems may enhance internal control over security and 
privacy risks associated with information obtained and generated by the organization. 
Information systems designed and implemented to restrict access to information only 
to those who need it and to reduce the number of access points enhance the effective -
ness of mitigating risks associated with the security and privacy of information. 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
110
406 
407 
408 
409 
410 Post Public Exposure Version
Components of Internal Control | Information and Communication
Enterprise resource planning (ERP) systems, association management systems (AMS), 
corporate intranets, collaboration tools, interactive social media, data warehouses, busi -
ness intelligence systems, operational systems (e.g., factory automation and energy-
usage systems), web-based applications, and other technology solutions present 
opportunities for management to leverage technology in developing and implementing 
effective and efficient information systems. 
Information Quality
Maintaining quality of information is necessary to an effective internal control system, 
particularly with today’s volume of data and dependence on sophisticated, auto -
mated information systems. The ability to generate quality information begins with the 
quality of data sourced. Inaccurate or incomplete data, and the information derived 
from such data, could result in potentially erroneous judgments, estimates, or other 
management decisions. 
The quality of information depends on whether it is:
 • Accessible—The information is easy to obtain by those who need it. Users 
know what information is available and where in the information system the 
information is accessible. 
 • Correct—The underlying data is accurate and complete. Information systems 
include validation checks that address accuracy and completeness, including 
necessary exception resolution procedures. 
 • Current—The data gathered is from current sources and is gathered at the 
frequency needed. 
 • Protected—Access to sensitive information is restricted to authorized per -
sonnel. Data categorization (e.g., confidential and top secret) supports 
information protection.
 • Retained—Information is available over an extended period of time to support 
inquiries and inspections by external parties.
 • Sufficient—There is enough information at the right level of detail relevant to 
information requirements. Extraneous data is eliminated to avoid inefficiency, 
misuse, or misinterpretation.
 • Timely—The information is available from the information system when 
needed. Timely information helps with the early identification of events, 
trends, and issues.
 • Valid—Information is obtained from authorized sources, gathered according to 
prescribed procedures, and represents events that actually occurred. 
 • Verifiable—Information is supported by evidence from the source. Manage
-
ment establishes information management policies with clear responsibility 
and accountability for the quality of the information. 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012 111
411 
412 
413 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
These policies also address data governance expectations that guide processes to 
define categories or classes of data and assign requirements for physical handling, 
storage, security, and privacy. These policies support management and other person -
nel’s responsibilities for protecting data and information from unauthorized access or 
change and for adhering to retention requirements. 
For example, in one case senior management of a decentralized, geographically dis -
persed government agency identified a risk, specific to achieving an operational objec -
tive, associated with the quality of operational data collected from its 2,000 field units. 
Management developed a set of specified data requirements and a reporting format to 
be used by all field units. Senior management consistently performed monthly reviews 
of key metrics derived from the data across all units. Those units with the best and 
poorest performance were required to explain the source of their data to an internal 
audit team. In addition, agency management used the reports of unit operational data 
and metrics on field visits and began asking questions to assess the unit’s understand -
ing of data on the reports. After six months of implementing this system of reporting, 
monthly reviews and field visits, and the related feedback that was shared throughout 
the process, the quality of information improved to the level acceptable to management. 
To maintain this level, management implemented amended policies and processes for 
reporting the operational data and business intelligence technology to enable consis -
tent, timely reporting of the information. 
Information that is obtained from outsourced service providers that manage busi -
ness processes on behalf of the entity, and other external parties on whom the entity 
depends, is subject to the same internal control expectations. Information requirements 
are developed by the organization and communicated to outside service providers and 
other similar external parties. Controls support the organization’s ability to rely on such 
information, including internal control over outsourced service providers such as vendor 
due diligence, exercise of right-to-audit clauses, and obtaining an independent assess -
ment over the service provider’s controls. 
Management considers its requirements to retain communications, particularly those to 
and from external parties or those that relate to the entity’s compliance with laws and 
regulations. Given the potential volume and ability to store and retrieve such infor -
mation, this requirement may be challenging when management relies on real-time, 
technology-enabled communication. Controls over retention of internal control informa-
tion consider the challenges of advances in technology, including communication and 
collaboration technologies used to support other components of internal control and 
achievement of the entity’s objectives.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
112
414 
415 
416 
417 Post Public Exposure Version
Components of Internal Control | Information and Communication
Communicates Internally
Principle 14: The organization internally communicates 
information, including objectives and responsibilities for 
internal control, necessary to support the functioning of 
other components of internal control.
Points of Focus
The following points of focus may assist management in determining whether this prin -
ciple is present and functioning:
 • Communicates Internal Control Information —A process is in place to com-
municate required information to enable all personnel to understand and carry 
out their internal control responsibilities. 
 • Communicates with the Board of Directors —Communication exists between 
management and the board of directors so that both have information needed 
to fulfill their roles with respect to the entity’s objectives.
 • Provides Separate Communication Lines —Separate communication chan
-
nels, such as whistle-blower hotlines, are in place and serve as fail-safe 
mechanisms to enable anonymous or confidential communication when 
normal channels are inoperative or ineffective.
 • Selects Relevant Method of Communication —The method of communication 
considers the timing, audience, and nature of the information.
Internal Control Communication 
Communication of information conveyed across the entity include:
 • Policies and procedures that support personnel in performing their internal 
control responsibilities
 • Specified objectives
 • Importance, relevance, and benefits of effective internal control
 • Roles and responsibilities of management and other personnel in 
performing controls
 • Expectations of the organization to communicate up, down, and across 
the entity any matters of significance relating to internal control including 
instances of weakness, deterioration, or non-adherence 
The organization establishes and implements policies and procedures that facilitate 
effective internal communication. This includes specific and directed communication 
that addresses individual authorities, responsibilities, and standards of conduct across 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
113
418 
419 
420 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
the entity. Senior management communicates the entity’s objectives clearly through 
the organization so that other management and personnel, including non-employees 
such as contractors, understand their individual roles in the organization. Such com -
munication occurs regardless of where personnel are located, their level of authority, or 
their functional responsibility. Internal communication begins with the communication 
of specified objectives. As management cascades the communication of the entity-
specific objectives throughout the organization, it is important that the related sub-
objectives or specific requirements are communicated to personnel in a manner that 
allows them to understand how their roles and responsibilities impact the achievement 
of the entity’s objectives. 
All personnel also receive a clear message from senior management that their internal 
control responsibilities must be taken seriously. Through communication of objectives 
and sub-objectives, personnel understand how their roles, responsibilities, and actions 
relate to the work of others in the organization, their responsibilities for internal control, 
and what is deemed acceptable and unacceptable behavior. As discussed under 
Control Environment, by establishing appropriate structures, authorities, and responsi -
bilities, communication to personnel of the expectations for internal control is effected. 
However, communication about internal control responsibilities may not on its own be 
sufficient to ensure that management and other personnel embrace their accountability 
and respond as intended. Often, management must take timely action that is consistent 
with such communication to reinforce the messages conveyed.
Management selects, develops and deploys controls over the sharing of informa -
tion through internal communication and that help management and other personnel 
leverage information that may impact multiple functions, operating units or divisions. 
For example: 
 • Field service personnel in the sales department of an entity gather informa -
tion about defect rates on certain parts. This information is also useful to the 
directors of manufacturing and engineering as it may indicate a production 
quality or product design issue. In addition, the results of monitoring activi
-
ties are communicated to other personnel to help identify the root cause of an 
issue and take corrective action. 
 • Internal audit department conducts an audit over the commissions paid to dis
-
tributors in one international location. The audit reveals instances of fraudulent 
reporting of sales through certain distributors. Further investigation exposes 
payments by the distributor to the sales representative responsible for the 
related distributors. In addition to sharing information with those responsible 
for responding to potential fraud, it is shared with sales management in other 
international locations, enabling them to analyze information more critically to 
determine if the issue is more pervasive and take any necessary actions. 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
114
421 
422 Post Public Exposure Version
Components of Internal Control | Information and Communication
Internal Control Communication with Board
Communication between management and the board of directors provides the board 
with information needed to exercise its oversight responsibility for internal control. 
Information relating to internal control communicated to the board generally includes 
significant matters about the adherence to, changes in, or issues arising from the 
system of internal control. The frequency and level of detail of communication between 
management and the board of directors must be sufficient to enable the board of direc -
tors to understand the results of management’s separate and ongoing assessments and 
the impact of those results on the achievement of objectives. Additionally, the frequency 
and level of detail must be sufficient to enable the board of directors to respond to indi -
cations of ineffective internal control in a timely basis. 
Direct communication to the board of directors by other personnel is also impor -
tant. Members of the board of directors should have direct access to employees 
without interference from management. For example, some organizations encourage 
board members to meet with management and personnel without senior manage -
ment present. This allows board members to independently ask questions and assess 
important matters that employees may not otherwise feel comfortable sharing, such as 
adherence to the code of conduct, competence of personnel, or potential management 
override of controls. Additionally, the overall system of internal control is enhanced by 
the internal audit department that is independent of management. Internal audit com -
munication to the board of directors is generally direct, free from management bias and, 
where necessary, confidential. 
Communication beyond Normal Channels
For information to flow up, down, and across the organization, there must be open 
channels of communication and a clear-cut willingness to report and listen. Manage -
ment and other personnel must believe their supervisors truly want to know about prob -
lems and will deal with them, as necessary. In most cases, normal established reporting 
lines in an entity are the appropriate channels of communication. However, person -
nel are quick to pick up on signals if management does not have the time, interest, or 
resources to deal with problems they have uncovered. Compounding the problem is 
that an unreceptive or unavailable manager is usually the last to know that the normal 
communications channel is inoperative or ineffective.
In some circumstances, separate lines of communication are needed to establish a fail-
safe mechanism for anonymous or confidential communication when normal channels 
are inoperative or ineffective. Many entities provide, and make employees aware of, a 
channel for such communications to be received by the board of directors or a board 
delegate such as a member of the audit committee. In some cases, laws and regula -
tions require companies to establish such alternative communications channels (e.g., 
whistle-blower and ethics hotlines). Information systems should include mechanisms 
for anonymous or confidential reporting. Employees must fully understand how these 
channels operate, how they should be used, and how they will be protected to have 
the confidence to use them. Policies and procedures exist requiring all communication 
through these channels to be assessed, prioritized, and investigated. Escalation proce -
dures ensure that necessary communication will be made to a specific board member 
who is responsible for ensuring that timely and proper assessments, investigations, and 
actions are carried out. 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
115
423 
424 
425 
426 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
These separate mechanisms, which encourage employees to report suspected viola -
tions of an entity’s code of conduct without fear of reprisal, send a clear message that 
senior management is committed to open communication channels and will act on 
information that is reported to them.
Method of Communication
Both the clarity of the information and effectiveness with which it is communicated are 
important to ensuring messages are received as intended. Active forms of communica -
tion such as face-to-face meetings are often more effective than passive forms such as 
broadcast emails and intranet postings. Periodic evaluation of the effectiveness of com -
munication helps to ensure methods are working. This can be done through a variety 
of existing processes such as employee performance evaluations, annual management 
reviews, and other feedback programs. 
Management selects the method of communication, taking into account the audience, 
nature of the communication, timeliness, cost, and any legal or regulatory requirements. 
Communication can take such forms as:
 • Dashboards 
 • Email messages
 • Live or online training
 • Memoranda
 • One-on-one discussions
 • Performance evaluations
 • Policies and procedures
 • Presentations
 • Social media postings
 • Text messages
 • Webcast and other video forms
 • Website or collaboration site postings
When choosing a method of communication, management considers the following:
 • Where messages are transmitted orally—in large groups, smaller meetings, 
or one-on-one sessions—the person’s tone of voice and non-verbal cues 
emphasize what is being said and enhance understanding and opportunity for 
recipients to respond to the communication.
 • Cultural, ethnic, and generational differences can affect how messages 
are received and should be considered in the method of communication to 
support a variety of audiences (e.g., by translating messages into multiple 
languages, holding one-to-one meetings that respect a preference for privacy 
in certain matters, and the use of technology-based media).
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
116
427 
428 
429 
430 Post Public Exposure Version
Components of Internal Control | Information and Communication
 • Communications directly relevant to internal control effectiveness may require 
a method that allows for long-term retention. In some instances, employee 
acknowledgment of review and understanding of certain policies should 
be retained (e.g., code of conduct, anti-money laundering, and corporate 
security).
 • Time-sensitive communications delivered through informal methods such as 
email, text messaging, and social media postings may be sufficient and more 
cost-effective, particularly when confidentiality or retention is not necessary. 
 • Management and personnel that communicate solely through formal means 
(e.g., official office memos) may not reach their intended audience and may 
not receive return communications from those who are more comfortable 
using informal means of communication (e.g., email, text messages or social 
media postings).
Communication of information related to internal control responsibilities alone may not 
be sufficient to ensure that management and other personnel receive and respond as 
intended. Consistent and timely actions taken by management with such communica-
tion reinforce the messages conveyed.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
117
431 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
Communicates Externally
Principle 15: The organization communicates with external 
parties regarding matters affecting the functioning of 
other components of internal control. 
Points of Focus
The following points of focus may assist management in determining whether this prin -
ciple is present and functioning:
 • Communicates to External Parties —Processes are in place to communicate 
relevant and timely information to external parties including shareholders, 
partners, owners, regulators, customers, and financial analysts and other 
external parties.
 • Enables Inbound Communications —Open communication channels allow 
input from customers, consumers, suppliers, external auditors, regulators, 
financial analysts, and others, providing management and the board of direc
-
tors with relevant information.
 • Communicates with the Board of Directors —Relevant information result-
ing from assessments conducted by external parties is communicated to the 
board of directors.
 • Provides Separate Communication Lines —Separate communication chan
-
nels, such as whistle-blower hotlines, are in place and serve as fail-safe 
mechanisms to enable anonymous or confidential communication when 
normal channels are inoperative or ineffective.
 • Selects Relevant Method of Communication —The method of communication 
considers the timing, audience, and nature of the communication and legal, 
regulatory, and fiduciary requirements and expectations.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
118
432 Post Public Exposure Version
Components of Internal Control | Information and Communication
Outbound Communication
Communication occurs not only within the entity, but with those outside as well. With 
open two-way external communication channels, important information concerning the 
entity’s objectives may be obtained from and provided to shareholders or other owners, 
business partners, customers, regulators, financial analysts, government entities, and 
other external parties. Outbound communication should be viewed distinctly from exter -
nal reporting as discussed in Chapter 2 Objectives, Components, and Principles.
The organization develops and implements controls that facilitate external communica -
tion. These may include policies and procedures to obtain or receive information from 
external parties and to share that information internally, allowing management and other 
personnel to identify trends, events, or circumstances that may impact the achievement 
of objectives. For example, soliciting customer input on the design or quality of prod -
ucts or services may enable an entity to address evolving customer demands or prefer -
ences. Alternatively, customer or supplier complaints or inquiries about shipments, 
receipts, billings, or other unusual activities may indicate operating problems, fraudulent 
activities, or errors. 
Communication to external parties allows them to readily understand events, activities, 
or other circumstances that may affect how they interact with the entity. Management’s 
communication to external parties sends a message about the importance of internal 
control in the organization by demonstrating open lines of communication. Communi -
cation to external suppliers and customers supports the entity’s ability to maintain an 
appropriate control environment. Suppliers and customers need to fully understand the 
entity’s values and cultures. They are informed of the entity’s code of conduct and rec -
ognize their responsibilities in helping to ensure compliance with the code of conduct. 
For example, management communicates its controls relating to business dealings with 
vendors upon approval of a new vendor and requires the vendor to acknowledge its 
adherence prior to the approval of an initial purchase order with the vendor.
Technology and communication tools enable external parties to have access to public 
forums to post and discuss an entity’s business, activities, and controls. When an 
organization uses, or authorizes its employees to use public forums, such as social 
media and similar unrestricted communication tools, management develops and 
implements controls that guide expectations for proper use to avoid jeopardizing the 
entity’s objectives.
Inbound Communication to Management and the Board
Communications from external parties may also provide important information on the 
functioning of the entity’s internal control system. These can include:
 • An independent assessment of internal controls at an outsourced service 
provider related to the organization’s objectives
 • An independent auditor’s assessment of internal control over financial or non-
financial reporting of the entity
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
119
433 
434 
435 
436 
437 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
 • Customer feedback related to product quality, improper charges, and missing 
or erroneous receipts
 • New or changed laws, rules, regulations, standards, and other requirements of 
standard- and rule-setting bodies
 • Results from regulatory compliance reviews or examinations such as banking, 
securities, or taxing authorities
 • Vendor questions related to timely or missing payments for goods sold
 • Postings on organization-sponsored or supported social media websites or 
communication tools
Information resulting from external assessments about the organization’s activities that 
relate to matters of internal control are evaluated by management and, where appropri -
ate, communicated to the board of directors. For example, management has entered 
into an arrangement that allows the organization to periodically use externally managed 
technology services to perform transaction processing in lieu of hiring personnel and 
purchasing and implementing additional hardware and software internally. The organiza -
tion uses sensitive customer data in certain processes. To maintain compliance with the 
entity’s policies and external laws, regulations, and standards, an assessment of inter -
nal control over the security and privacy of externally transmitted data (including data 
transmitted over the Internet) is performed by a third party. The results of the assess -
ment reveal weaknesses in internal control that could impact the security and privacy of 
data. Management assesses the significance of the weaknesses and reports informa -
tion necessary to enable the board of directors to carry out its oversight responsibilities.
The interdependence of business processes between the entity and outsourced service 
providers can blur the lines of responsibility between the entity’s internal control system 
and that of outsourced service providers. This creates a need for more rigorous con -
trols over communication between the parties. For example, supply chain management 
in a global retail company occurs through a dynamic, interactive exchange of activi -
ties between the company, vendors, logistics providers, and contract manufacturers. 
Internal control over the end-to-end processes becomes a shared responsibility, but 
there may be uncertainty about which entity is responsible at a particular stage of the 
process. Communicating with outsourced service providers responsible for activities 
supporting the entity’s objectives may facilitate the risk assessment process, the over -
sight of business activities, decision making, and the identification of responsibility for 
internal control throughout the process regardless of where activities occur.
Communication beyond Normal Channels
Complexity of business relationships between the entity and external parties may arise 
through service provider and other outsourcing arrangements, joint ventures and alli -
ances, and other transactions that create mutual dependencies between the parties. 
Such complexity may create concerns over how business is being conducted by or 
between the parties. In this case, the organization makes separate communication 
channels available to customers, suppliers, and outsourced service providers to allow 
them to communicate directly with management and other personnel. For example, 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
120
438 
439 
440 Post Public Exposure Version
Components of Internal Control | Information and Communication
a customer of products developed through a joint venture may learn that one of the 
joint venture partners sold products in a country that was not agreed to under the joint 
venture arrangement. Such a breach may affect the customer’s ability to use or resell 
the products, impacting the customer’s business. The customer needs a channel in 
which it can communicate concerns to others in the organization without disrupting its 
ongoing operations.
Method of Communication
The means by which management communicates externally affects the ability to obtain 
information needed as well as to ensure that key messages about the organization are 
received and understood. Management considers the method of communication used, 
which can take many forms, taking into account the audience, the nature of the commu -
nication, timeliness, and any legal or regulatory requirements. For example, customers 
who regularly access entity information through a customer portal may receive mes -
sages through postings on the corporate website. 
Press and news releases issued through investor or public relations channels are often 
effective for reaching a broad audience of external parties, ensuring wide distribution 
and increasing the likelihood that information is received. Blogs, social media, elec -
tronic billboards, and email are also common forms of external communication because 
they can be tailored and directed to the specific party, help to control the information 
obtained by external parties, and support expectations that information can be sent and 
received quickly with greater use of mobile communication devices.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
121
441 
442 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
122Post Public Exposure Version
Components of Internal Control | Monitoring Activities
Chapter Summary 
Ongoing evaluations, separate evaluations, or some combination of the 
two are used to ascertain whether each of the five components of inter -
nal control, including controls to effect the principles within each compo-
nent, is present and functioning. Ongoing evaluations, built into business 
processes at different levels of the entity, provide timely information. 
Separate evaluations, conducted periodically, will vary in scope and 
frequency depending on assessment of risks, effectiveness of ongoing 
evaluations, and other management considerations. Findings are evalu-
ated against criteria established by regulators, standard-setting bodies, 
or management and board of directors, and deficiencies are communi-
cated to management and the board of directors as appropriate.
Principles relating to the Monitoring Activities component
16. The organization selects, develops, and performs ongoing and/
or separate evaluations to ascertain whether the components of 
internal control are present and functioning.
17. The organization evaluates and communicates internal control 
deficiencies in a timely manner to those parties responsible for 
taking corrective action, including senior management and the 
board of directors, as appropriate.
9.  Monitoring Activities
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
123
443 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
Introduction
Monitoring activities assess whether 
each of the five components of internal 
control is present and functioning. The 
organization uses ongoing, separate 
evaluations, or some combination 
of the two, to ascertain whether the 
components of internal control (includ -
ing controls to effect principles across 
the entity and its subunits) are present 
and functioning. Monitoring is a key 
input into the organization’s assess-
ment of the effectiveness of internal 
control. It provides valuable support 
for assertions, if required, regarding 
the effectiveness of the system of 
internal control. 
An entity’s system of internal control will often change. The entity’s objectives and 
the components of internal control may also change over time. Also, procedures may 
become less effective or obsolete, may no longer be in place and functioning, or may 
be deemed insufficient to support the achievement of the new or updated objectives. 
Monitoring activities are selected, developed, and performed to ascertain whether each 
component continues to be present and functioning or if change is needed. When a 
component or a principle drawn from the five components is not present and func -
tioning, some form of internal control deficiency exists. Management also needs to 
determine whether the system of internal control continues to be relevant and is able to 
address new risks.
Where appropriate, monitoring activities identify and examine expectation gaps relat -
ing to anomalies and abnormalities, which may indicate one or more deficiencies in 
an entity’s system of internal control. In reviewing and investigating expectation gaps 
management often identifies root causes of such gaps. 
When distinguishing between a monitoring activity and a control activity, organizations 
need to consider underlying details of the activity in determining whether an activity is a 
control activity versus a monitoring activity, especially where the activity involves some 
level of supervisory review. Supervisory reviews are not automatically classified as mon -
itoring activities and it may be a matter of judgment whether a review is classified as a 
control activity or a monitoring activity. For example, the intent of a monthly complete -
ness control activity would be to detect and correct errors, where a monitoring activity 
would ask why there were errors in the first place and assign management the respon -
sibility of fixing the process to prevent future errors. In simple terms, a control activity 
responds to a specific risk, whereas a monitoring activity assesses whether controls 
within each of the five components of internal control are operating as intended, among 
other things. 
Function
Control Environment
Risk Assessment
Control Activities
Information & Communication
Monitoring Activities
Operations
Entity Level
Division
Operating Unit
Reporting Compliance
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
124
444 
445 
446 
447 Post Public Exposure Version
Components of Internal Control | Monitoring Activities
The examples below illustrate the relationship between control activities and monitoring 
activities of a payable reconciliation.
Control Activities Monitoring Activities
 • The accounts payable (AP) clerk at Division A 
reconciles the Division A payables sub-ledger to 
the general ledger on a periodic basis. Reconcil -
ing items are investigated and resolved on a 
timely basis.
 • Management independent of those involved in 
the performance of the control activity: 
 - Inspects documentation that the reconcilia -
tions were performed across all divisions or 
subsidiaries.
 - Examines for identifiable trends in the 
volume and/or nature of the reconciling 
items noted.
 • Management evaluates whether the sources and 
the quality of information used for the payable 
reconciliation are appropriate.
 • Management evaluates whether new risks relat -
ing to changes in internal and external factors 
were identified, assessed, and responded to in 
the payables reconciliation.
 • The AP supervisor periodically reviews and 
approves the payables sub-ledger to general 
ledger account reconciliation.
 • Semiannually, management evaluates whether 
supervisors performing the review and approval 
are properly trained and knowledgeable.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
125
448 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
Conducts Ongoing and/or Separate Evaluations 
Principle 16: The organization selects, develops, and 
performs ongoing and/or separate evaluations to 
ascertain whether the components of internal control are 
present and functioning.
Points of Focus
The following points of focus may assist management in determining whether this prin -
ciple is present and functioning:
 • Considers a Mix of Ongoing and Separate Evaluations —Management 
includes a balance of ongoing and separate evaluations. 
 • Considers Rate of Change —Management considers the rate of change in 
business and business processes when selecting and developing ongoing 
and separate evaluations.
 • Establishes Baseline Understanding —The design and current state of an 
internal control system are used to establish a baseline for ongoing and sepa -
rate evaluations.
 • Uses Knowledgeable Personnel —Evaluators performing ongoing and 
separate evaluations have sufficient knowledge to understand what is 
being evaluated.
 • Integrates with Business Processes —Ongoing evaluations are built into the 
business processes and adjust to changing conditions.
 • Adjusts Scope and Frequency—Management varies the scope and frequency 
of separate evaluations depending on risk.
 • Objectively Evaluates—Separate evaluations are performed periodically to 
provide objective feedback. 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
126
449 Post Public Exposure Version
Components of Internal Control | Monitoring Activities
Ongoing and Separate Evaluations
Monitoring can be done in two ways: through ongoing evaluations or separate evalu -
ations, or some combination of the two. Ongoing evaluations are generally defined, 
routine operations, built in to business processes and performed on a real-time basis, 
reacting to changing conditions. Where ongoing evaluations are built in to business pro -
cesses, the components of internal control are usually structured to monitor themselves 
on an ongoing basis, at least to some degree. Separate evaluations are conducted 
periodically by objective management personnel, internal audit, and/or external parties, 
among others. The scope and frequency of separate evaluations is a matter of manage -
ment judgment. 
Since separate evaluations take place periodically, problems will often be identified 
more quickly by ongoing evaluations. Many entities with sound ongoing evaluations 
will nonetheless conduct separate evaluations of the components of internal control to 
reconfirm ongoing evaluation conclusions. An entity that perceives a need for frequent 
separate evaluations may consider identifying ways to enhance ongoing evaluations.
Management selects, develops, and performs a mix of monitoring activities usually 
including both ongoing and separate evaluations, to ascertain whether each of the 
five components of internal control are present and functioning. As part of monitor -
ing the five components, management uses these evaluations to ascertain whether 
controls to effect principles across the entity and its subunits have been designed, 
implemented, and conducted. The decision of whether to conduct ongoing or separate 
evaluations, or some combination of the two, may occur at different levels of the entity. 
Thought is given to the scope and nature of the entity’s operations, changes in inter -
nal and external factors, and the associated risks when developing the ongoing and 
separate evaluations. 
Rate of Change 
Management considers the rate that an entity or the entity’s industry is anticipated to 
change. An entity in an industry that is quickly changing may need to have more fre -
quent separate evaluations and may reconsider the mix of ongoing and separate evalu -
ations during the period of change. For example, banks subject to financial regulatory 
reforms select and develop monitoring activities that anticipate future change and reac -
tions to the changing regulatory environment. Usually, some combination of ongoing 
and separate evaluations will validate whether or not the components of internal control 
remain present and functioning.
Monitoring activities may be used to support external reporting including management 
assertions over the entity’s system of internal control or other forms of compliance 
reporting. The requirements of external reporting or management assertions will usually 
affect the combination of ongoing and separate evaluations and how they are selected, 
developed, and performed. 
Baseline Information 
Understanding the design and current state of a system of internal control system 
provides useful baseline information for establishing ongoing and separate evaluations. 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
127
450 
451 
452 
453 
454 
455 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
Monitoring activities require an understanding of how management has designed the 
system of internal control and how controls have been designed, implemented, and 
conducted. As management gains experience with monitoring activities, its baseline 
understanding will evolve based on the results of such activities. If an entity does not 
have a baseline understanding in areas with risks of higher significance, it may need to 
perform a separate evaluation of those areas to establish the baseline. When change 
occurs within the components of internal control, the baseline may need to be evaluated 
to make sure monitoring activities remain appropriate or updated so they are aligned 
with other components of internal control. 
Ongoing Evaluations
Manual and automated ongoing evaluations monitor the presence and functioning of 
the components of internal control in the ordinary course of managing the business. 
Ongoing evaluations are generally performed by line operating or functional manag -
ers, who are competent and have sufficient knowledge to understand what is being 
evaluated, giving thoughtful consideration to implications of information they receive. 
By focusing on relationships, inconsistencies, or other relevant implications, they raise 
issues and follow up with other personnel as necessary to determine whether corrective 
or other action is needed.
Entities frequently use technology to support control activities and monitor the compo -
nents of internal control. Technology offers an opportunity to use computerized moni -
toring, which has a very high standard of objectivity (once programmed and tested) and 
allows for efficient review of large volumes of data at a low cost. Advances in automated 
activities have made continuous monitoring computer applications available, and these 
should be considered when selecting ongoing evaluations.
The following examples illustrate ongoing evaluations.
The quality officer of a medium-size manufacturing company participates in a monthly production meeting 
where she obtains information regarding approval of product modifications. The quality officer review raises 
probing questions to identify unusual trends or anomalies, may initiate investigations, and may use infor -
mation obtained from the investigations to modify control activities that authorize other personnel to alter 
production terms.
An entity uses software to automate the review of all payment transactions. This software identifies unusual 
transactions within the payable business process, including the identification of possible duplicate payments, 
based on pre-established parameters. Identified anomalies are investigated to determine the root cause, and 
any internal control deficiencies are identified, reported, and appropriately acted on.
The chief compliance officer, as part of his review of the monthly reporting process to the board reviews, 
reports from the entity’s hotline process for trends, and makes direct inquiries into any increased activity.
An entity allows a contract management variance of 5% in paying contractors. The contract payments are 
reviewed quarterly to determine if any staff are routinely approving within the 5% variance, since the 5% 
should be an exception and not routine. Identified exceptions are investigated to determine if there are any 
internal control deficiencies. If deficiencies are found, they are reported to determine if adjustments to the 
process are necessary.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
128
456 
457 
458 
459 Post Public Exposure Version
Components of Internal Control | Monitoring Activities
Separate Evaluations
Separate evaluations are generally not ingrained within the business but can be useful 
in taking a fresh look at whether each of the five components of internal control are 
present and functioning. Such evaluations include observations, inquiries, reviews, and 
other examinations, as appropriate, to ascertain whether controls to effect principles 
across the entity and its subunits, are designed, implemented, and conducted. Separate 
evaluations of the components of internal control vary in scope and frequency, depend -
ing on the significance of risks, risk responses, results on ongoing evaluations, and 
expected impacts on the control components in managing the risks. Higher priority risks 
and responses should be evaluated often in greater depth and/or more often than lower 
priority risks. While higher priority risks can be evaluated with both ongoing and sepa -
rate evaluations, separate evaluation may provide feedback on the results of ongoing 
evaluations, and the number of separate evaluations can be increased as necessary. 
A separate evaluation of the overall internal control system, or specific components of 
internal control, may be appropriate for a number of reasons: major strategy or manage -
ment change, acquisitions or dispositions, changes in economic or political conditions, 
or changes in operations or methods of processing information. The evaluation scope 
is determined by which of the three objectives categories—operations, reporting, or 
compliance—are being addressed.
Knowledgeable Personnel 
Separate evaluations are often conducted through the internal audit function, and while 
having an internal audit function is not a requisite of internal control, it can enhance 
the scope, frequency, and objectivity of such reviews.
21 Since separate evaluations are 
conducted periodically by independent managers, employees, or external reviewers to 
provide feedback with greater objectivity, evaluators need to be knowledgeable about 
the entity’s activities and how the monitoring activities function, and understand what is 
being evaluated. Procedures designed to operate in a particular way may be modified 
over time to operate differently, or they may no longer be performed. Sometimes new 
procedures are established, but are not known to those who described the process and 
are not included in available documentation. Determining the actual functioning can be 
accomplished by holding discussions with personnel who perform or are affected by 
controls, by examining performance records, or by a combination of procedures.
The evaluator analyzes the components of internal control design and operation, 
and the results of evaluations. The analysis is conducted against the backdrop of 
management’s established standards for each component, with the ultimate goal of 
determining whether the process provides reasonable assurance with respect to the 
stated objectives.
21 Some external bodies may require an entity to have an internal audit function. For example the New York 
Stock Exchange requires all corporations who list securities on the exchange to have an internal audit 
function (NYSE Listed Company Manual 303A.07(d)).
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012 129
460 
461 
462 
463 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
Separate Evaluation Approaches and Objectivity
There are a variety of approaches available to perform separate evaluations. The scope, 
nature, frequency, and formality of approaches vary with the relative importance of the 
risk responses and related components and principles of internal control that are being 
evaluated. Separate evaluations may include: 
 • Internal Audit Evaluations—Internal auditors are often objective and compe -
tent resources, whether in-house or outsourced, and perform separate evalu -
ations as part of their regular duties, or at the specific request of senior man -
agement or the board of directors. For example, each year the internal audit 
function develops an internal audit plan of projects that are selected based on 
a risk-based approach aligned with organizational objectives and stakeholder 
priorities. Reports are distributed to senior management, the board of direc
-
tors or its audit committee, and to other parties positioned to take action on 
the recommendations in the report.
 • Other Objective Evaluations—For entities that lack an internal audit group 
or for those that have other quality functions that perform internal audit-like 
activities (such as a controls compliance group), management may use other 
internal or external objective reviewers, such as compliance officers, opera
-
tions specialists, IT security specialists, or consultants. For example, an 
entity’s IT security specialist may periodically evaluate the entity’s compliance 
with ISO/IEC 27002 Information Security Standard.
 • Cross Operating Unit or Functional Evaluations —An entity may use personnel 
from different operating units or functional areas to evaluate components of 
internal controls. For example, quality audit personnel from operating unit A 
may periodically evaluate the internal controls of operating unit B. Also, adding 
personnel from different operating units or functional areas on evaluations 
may improve communications between the operating unit or functional area.
 • Benchmarking/Peer Evaluations —Some entities compare or benchmark 
components of internal control against those of other entities. Such compari
-
sons might be done directly with another entity or under the auspices of trade 
or industry associations. Other entities may be able to provide comparative 
information. A word of caution: when conducting comparisons, consider the 
differences that always exist in objectives, facts, and circumstances. 
 • Self-Assessments—Separate evaluations may take the form of self-assess
-
ments (also called self-reviews), where those responsible for a particular 
unit or function will assess the presence and functioning of components of 
internal control relating to their activities. For example, in one company the 
chief executive of a food product division directs the evaluation of its internal 
control activities related to food safety regulations. She personally assesses 
the controls associated with strategic choices and high-level objectives as 
well as the components of internal environment, and individuals in charge of 
the division’s various operating activities assess the presence and functioning 
of internal components relative to their spheres of responsibility. Since self-
assessments have less objectivity than other separate evaluation approaches, 
the evaluator or those using the report will determine the weight and value to 
be placed on the results.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
130
464 Post Public Exposure Version
Components of Internal Control | Monitoring Activities
Outsourced Service Providers
Entities that use outsourced service providers for services such as third-party ware -
housing, Internet hosting, healthcare claims processing, retirement plan administration, 
or loan services need to understand the activities and controls associated with the 
services and how the outsourced service provider’s internal control system impacts the 
entity’s system of internal control. 
Entities may use the following approaches to gain an understanding of the outsourced 
service provider’s system of internal control since the type of information required to 
monitor outsourced service providers varies:
 • The user of outsourced services may conduct its own separate evaluations of 
the outsourced service provider’s system of internal control as relevant to the 
entity. In these circumstances an entity should build into its contract with any 
outsourced service provider a right-to-audit clause to allow for its own sepa
-
rate evaluation and access to visit the provider. 
 • Relevant information concerning internal control at an outsourced service 
provider may be attained by reviewing an independent audit or examination 
report.
22 When reviewing such reports, organizations consider the content 
of the assertions and attestations to be satisfied that the outsourced service 
provider’s controls interface with the entity’s controls, and that the tests and 
results of the outsourced service provider’s controls provide sufficient comfort 
to the user entity. Entities also consider the period of time covered by inde
-
pendent audit or examination report since it might not coincide with or provide 
the complete coverage needed by the entity. In these circumstances an entity 
should build into its contract with any outsourced service provide a require
-
ment for an independent audit or examination report.
 • When considering circumstances such as the nature and scope of information 
transferred between parties and the nature of the processing and reporting 
the outsourced service provider performs, an entity may be able to determine 
that there is sufficient internal control over processing provided by the out
-
sourced service provider without additional documentation. 
22 Examples of attestations for external financial reporting include a Service Organization Control (SOC) 
report issued pursuant to the AICPA’s Statement on Standards for Attestation Engagements No 16 (SSAE 
16 or SOC 1) or the International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3402 report (ISAE 3402).
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
131
465 
466 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
Evaluates and Communicates Deficiencies
Principle 17: The organization evaluates and 
communicates internal control deficiencies in a timely 
manner to those parties responsible for taking corrective 
action, including senior management and the board of 
directors, as appropriate.
Points of Focus
The following points of focus may assist management in determining whether this prin -
ciple is present and functioning:
 • Assesses Results—Management and the board of directors, as appropriate, 
assess results of ongoing and separate evaluations.
 • Communicates Deficiencies —Deficiencies are communicated to parties 
responsible for taking corrective action and to senior management and the 
board of directors, as appropriate. 23
 • Monitors Corrective Actions —Management tracks whether deficiencies are 
remediated on a timely basis.
Assess Results
In conducting monitoring activities, the organization may identify matters worthy of 
attention. Those that represent a potential or real shortcoming in some aspect of the 
system of internal control that has the potential to adversely affect the ability of the 
entity to achieve its objectives are referred to as deficiencies. In addition, the organiza -
tion may identify opportunities to improve the efficiency of internal control, or areas 
where changes to the current system of internal control may provide a greater likelihood 
that the entity’s objectives will be achieved. Although identifying and assessing potential 
opportunities is not part of the system of internal control, the organization will typically 
want to capture any opportunities identified and communicate those to the strategy or 
objective-setting processes.
Deficiencies in an entity’s components of internal control and underlying principles may 
surface from a variety of sources:
23 In many cases the board of directors will appoint a committee or committees to oversee the system of 
internal control, depending on the objective. For example, the board may appoint an audit committee to 
oversee system of internal controls for financial reporting.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012132
467 
468 
469 Post Public Exposure Version
Components of Internal Control | Monitoring Activities
 • Monitoring activities, including:
 - Ongoing evaluations of an entity, including managerial activities and 
everyday supervision of employees, generate insights from those who are 
directly involved in the entity’s activities. These insights are obtained in real 
time and can quickly identify deficiencies. 
 - Separate evaluations performed by management, internal auditors, func
-
tional managers, and other personnel can highlight areas that need to be 
improved.
 • Other components of internal control provide input relative to the operation of 
that component.
 • External parties such as customers, vendors, external auditors, and regula
-
tors frequently provide important information about an entity’s components of 
internal control. 
Communicating Internal Control Deficiencies 
Reporting on internal control deficiencies depends on the criteria established by regula -
tors, standard-setting bodies, and management and board of directors, as appropri -
ate. Results of ongoing and separate evaluations are assessed against those criteria to 
determine to whom to report and what is reported. Management’s criteria is typically 
based on the entity’s facts and circumstances and on established laws, rules, regula -
tions, and standards,
Communicating internal control deficiencies to the right parties to take corrective 
actions is critical for entities to achieve objectives. Additionally, the scope and approach 
of the evaluations, as well as any internal control deficiencies, need to be communi -
cated to those conducting the overall assessment of effectiveness of internal control. 
The nature of matters to be communicated varies depending on how the deficiency is 
evaluated against appropriate criteria, individuals’ authority to deal with circumstances 
that arise, and the oversight activities of superiors. Deficiencies may be reported to 
senior management and the board of directors depending on the reporting criteria as 
established by regulators, standard-setting bodies, or the entity, as appropriate. After 
deficiencies are evaluated management tracks whether remediation efforts are con -
ducted on a timely basis. Internal control deficiencies are usually reported both to the 
parties responsible for taking corrective action and to at least one level of management 
above that person. 
This higher level of management provides needed support or oversight for taking 
corrective action and is positioned to communicate with others in the entity whose 
activities may be affected. Where findings cut across organizational boundaries, the 
deficiencies are reported to all relevant parties and to a sufficiently high level to drive 
appropriate action. For instance, deficiencies relating to the board of directors where 
the board is not independent to the extent required, or where the board did not provide 
sufficient oversight, would be reported as prescribed by the entity’s reporting protocols 
to the full board, the chair of the board, lead director, and/or the nominating/governance 
or other appropriate board committees.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
133
470 
471 
472 
473 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
In considering what needs to be communicated, it is necessary to look at the impli -
cations of findings and the entity’s reporting directives. It is essential that not only a 
particular transaction or event be reported, but also that related faulty procedures be 
re-evaluated. Alternative communications channels should also exist for reporting sensi -
tive information such as illegal or improper acts. Additionally, deficiencies may need to 
be reported externally depending on the type of entity and the regulatory, industry, or 
other compliance requirements to which it is subject.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
134
474 Post Public Exposure Version
Limitations of Internal Control
Chapter Summary
Internal control, no matter how well designed, implemented and con-
ducted, can provide only reasonable assurance to management and the 
board of directors of the achievement of an entity’s objectives. The like-
lihood of achievement is affected by limitations inherent in all systems 
of internal control. These include the realities that human judgment in 
decision making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because 
of human failures such as making errors. Additionally, controls can be 
circumvented by two or more people colluding, and because manage-
ment can override the internal control system. 
10.  Limitations of Internal Control
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
135
475 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
Internal control has been viewed by some observers as ensuring that an entity will not 
fail—that is, the entity will always achieve its operations, reporting, and compliance 
objectives. In this sense, internal control sometimes is looked upon as a cure-all for all 
real and potential business ills. This view is misguided. Internal control is not a panacea.
In considering limitations of internal control, two distinct concepts must be recognized. 
First, internal control, even effective internal control, operates at different levels for dif -
ferent objectives. For objectives relating to the effectiveness and efficiency of an entity’s 
operations—achieving its mission, value propositions (e.g., productivity, quality, and 
customer service), profitability goals, and the like—internal control may not necessar -
ily provide reasonable assurance of the achievement of that objective unless based on 
external standard exists. Otherwise, internal control can only provide reasonable assur -
ance that the organization is aware of the entity’s progress, or lack of thereof, toward 
achieving such objectives. When an external standard does not exist to specify suit -
able objectives, internal control cannot provide absolute assurance that the objectives 
categories can be achieved.
The first set of limitations acknowledges that certain events or conditions are simply 
outside management’s control. The second acknowledges that no system of internal 
control will always do what it is designed to do. The best that can be expected in any of 
system of internal control is that reasonable assurance be obtained, which is the focus 
of this chapter.
Reasonable assurance does not imply that systems of internal control will frequently fail. 
Many factors, individually and collectively, serve to strengthen the concept of reason -
able assurance. Controls that satisfy multiple objectives and the multipurpose nature of 
many controls reduce the risk that an entity may not achieve its objectives. Furthermore, 
the normal, everyday operating activities and responsibilities of people functioning at 
various levels of an organization are directed at achieving the entity’s objectives. Indeed, 
it is likely that these activities often apprise management about the process toward the 
entity’s operations objectives, and also support the achievement of compliance and 
reporting objectives. However, because of the inherent limitations discussed above, 
there is no guarantee that, for example, an uncontrollable event, mistake, or improper 
incident could never occur. In other words, even an effective system of internal control 
may experience failures. Reasonable assurance is not absolute assurance.
Preconditions of Internal Control 
The Framework specifies several areas that are part of the management process but not 
part of internal control. Two such areas relate to establishing objectives as a pre-condi -
tion to internal control and to parts of the governance process that extend the board’s 
role beyond internal control. There is a dependency established on these areas, among 
others, to also be effective. An entity’s weak governance processes for selecting, 
developing, and evaluating board members may limit its ability to provide appropriate 
oversight of internal control. Similarly, ineffective strategy-setting or objective-setting 
processes would challenge the entity’s ability to identify poorly specified, unrealistic, 
or unsuitable objectives. A system of internal control cannot encompass all activities 
undertaken by the entity, and weaknesses in these areas may impede the organization 
in having effective internal control.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
136
476 
477 
478 
479 
480 Post Public Exposure Version
Limitations of Internal Control
Judgment
The effectiveness of internal control is limited by the realities of human frailty in the 
making of business decisions. Such decisions must be made with human judgment 
in the time available, based on information at hand, and under the pressures of the 
conduct of business. Some decisions based on human judgment may later, with the 
clarity of hindsight, be found to produce less than desirable results, and may need to 
be changed.
Breakdowns
Even a well-designed system of internal control can break down. Personnel may 
misunderstand instructions, make mistakes in judgment, or commit errors due to 
carelessness, distraction, or being asked to focus on too many tasks. For example, a 
department supervisor responsible for investigating exceptions might simply forget or 
fail to pursue the investigation far enough to be able to make appropriate corrections. 
Temporary personnel conducting controls for vacationing or sick employees might not 
perform correctly. Changes in the design of information technology application controls 
may be implemented before personnel have been trained to indicators that it may not be 
functioning as designed.
Management Override
Even an entity with an effective system of internal control may have a manager who is 
willing and able to override internal control. The term “management override” is used 
here to mean overruling prescribed policies or procedures for illegitimate purposes with 
the intent of personal gain or an enhanced presentation of an entity’s performance or 
compliance. A manager of a division or operating unit, or a member of senior manage -
ment, might override the control for many reasons such as to: 
 • Increase reported revenue to cover an unanticipated decrease in market share 
 • Enhance reported earnings to meet unrealistic budgets
 • Boost the market value of the entity prior to a public offering or sale
 • Meet sales or earnings projections to bolster bonus payouts tied to 
performance 
 • Appear to cover violations of debt covenant agreements 
 • Hide lack of compliance with legal requirements 
Override practices include deliberately making misrepresentations to bankers, lawyers, 
accountants, and vendors, and intentionally issuing false documents such as purchase 
orders and sales invoices.
Management override should not be confused with management intervention, which 
represents management’s actions to depart from prescribed controls for legitimate pur -
poses. Management intervention is necessary to deal with non-recurring and non-stan -
dard transactions or events that otherwise might be handled inappropriately. Provision 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
137
481 
482 
483 
484 
485 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
for management intervention is necessary because no process can be designed to 
anticipate every risk and every condition. Management’s actions to intervene are gener -
ally overt and commonly documented or otherwise disclosed to appropriate personnel. 
Actions to override usually are not documented or disclosed, and have the intent to 
cover up the actions.
Collusion
Collusion can result in internal control deficiencies. Individuals acting collectively to per -
petrate and conceal an action from detection often can alter financial or other manage -
ment information so that it cannot be detected or prevented by the system of internal 
control. Collusion can occur, for example, between an employee who performs controls 
and a customer, supplier, or another employee, Sales and/or operating unit manage -
ment might collude to circumvent controls so that reported results meet budgets or 
incentive targets.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
138
486 Post Public Exposure Version
Appendices
Appendices
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
139Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
A. Glossary 
 • Application Controls—Programmed procedures in application software and 
related manual procedures designed to help ensure the completeness and 
accuracy of information processing.
 • Automated Controls—Control activities mostly or wholly performed through 
technology (e.g., automated control functions programmed into computer 
software; contrast with Manual Controls ). 
 • Board—Governing body of an entity, which may take the form of a board of 
directors or supervisory board for a corporation, board of trustees for a not-
for-profit organization, board of governors or commissioners for government 
entities, general partners for a partnership, or owner for a small business. 
 • Category—One of three groupings of objectives of internal control. The cat
-
egories relate to operations, reporting, and compliance. 
 • Compliance—Having to do with conforming with laws and regulations appli -
cable to an entity.
 • Component—One of five elements of internal control. The internal control 
components are the Control Environment, Risk Assessment, Control Activi -
ties, Information and Communication, and Monitoring Activities.
 • Control—(1) A noun (i.e., existence of a control), a policy or procedure that is 
part of internal control. Controls exist within each of the five components. (2)  
A verb (i.e., to control), to establish or implement a policy or procedure that 
effects a principle.
 • Control Activity—An action established through policies and procedures that 
help ensure that management’s directives to mitigate risks to the achievement 
of objectives are carried out. 
 • Control Deficiency—A synonym for Internal Control Deficiency. A control 
deficiency may also describe a deficiency with respect to a particular control 
or control activity.
 • COSO—The Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Com
-
mission. COSO is a joint initiative of five private-sector organizations that are 
dedicated to providing thought leadership through the development of frame
-
works and guidance on enterprise risk management, internal control. and 
fraud deterrence (see www.coso.org).
 • Design—(1) Intent; as used in the definition of internal control, the internal 
control system design is intended to provide reasonable assurance of the 
achievement of objectives; when the intent is realized, the system can be 
deemed effective. (2) Plan; the way a system is supposed to work, contrasted 
with how it actually works.
 • Detective Control—A control designed to discover an unintended event or 
result after the initial processing has occurred but before the ultimate objec
-
tive has concluded (contrast with Preventive Control ).
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
140Post Public Exposure Version
Appendices
 • Effected—Used with an internal control system: devised and maintained.
 • Effective Internal Control —Internal control that is judged to be effective 
resulting from an assessment of whether each of the five components of 
internal control is present and functioning, and whether the five components 
of internal control are operating together. 
 • Effective Internal Control System —A synonym for Effective Internal Control .
 • Entity—A legal entity or management operating model of any size established 
for a particular purpose. A legal entity may, for example, be a business enter
-
prise, not-for-profit organization, government body, or academic institution. 
The management operating model may follow product or service lines, divi
-
sion, or operating unit, with geographic markets providing for further subdivi -
sions or aggregations of performance.
 • Entity-level—Higher levels of the entity, separate and distinct from other parts 
of the entity including subsidiaries, divisions, operating units, and functions.
 • Entity-wide—Activities that apply across the entity—most commonly in rela -
tion to entity-wide controls. 
 • Ethical Values—Moral values that enable a decision-maker to determine an 
appropriate course of behavior; these values should be based on what is right, 
which may go beyond what is legal.
 • Financial Statements—Typically a statement of financial position, a statement 
of income, a statement of changes in equity, a statement of cash flow, and 
notes to the financial statements.
 • Inherent Limitations—Those limitations of all internal control systems. The 
limitations relate to the preconditions of internal control, limits of human judg
-
ment, the reality that breakdowns can occur, and the possibility of manage -
ment override and collusion.
 • Integrity—The quality or state of being of sound moral principle; uprightness, 
honesty, and sincerity; the desire to do the right thing, to profess and live up 
to a set of values and expectations.
 • Internal Control—A process, effected by an entity’s board of directors, 
management, and other personnel, designed to provide reasonable assur
-
ance regarding the achievement of objectives relating to operations, reporting, 
and compliance.
 • Internal Control Deficiency —A shortcoming in the system of internal control, 
component, or principle that has the potential to affect the ability of the entity 
to achieve its objectives.
 • Management Override —Management’s overruling of prescribed policies or 
procedures for illegitimate purposes with the intent of personal gain or an 
enhanced presentation of an entity’s financial condition or compliance status.
 • Management Process—The series of actions taken by management to run an 
entity. An internal control system is a part of and integrated with the manage
-
ment process.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
141Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
 • Manual Controls—Controls performed manually, not through technology 
(contrast with Automated Controls ).
 • Operations—Used with “objectives” or “controls”: having to do with the effec-
tiveness and efficiency of an entity’s operations, including performance and 
profitability goals, and safeguarding resources.
 • Organization—People, including the board of directors, senior management, 
and other personnel. 
 • Policy—Management or board member statement of what should be done to 
effect control. Such statements may be documented, explicitly stated in com -
munications, or implied through actions and decisions. A policy serves as the 
basis for procedures.
 • Present and Functioning—Applied to components and principles. “Present” 
refers to the determination that components and relevant principles are 
reflected in the design and implementation of the system of internal control. 
“Functioning” refers to the determination that components and relevant prin
-
ciples have been reflected in the conduct of the organization. 
 • Preventive Control—A control designed to avoid an unintended event or result 
at the time of initial occurrence (contrast with Detective Control ).
 • Procedure—An action that implements a policy.
 • Published Financial Statements —Financial statements, interim and con -
densed financial statements, and selected data derived from such statements, 
and reported publicly.
 • Reasonable Assurance —The concept that internal control, no matter how 
well designed and operated, cannot guarantee that an entity’s objectives will 
be met. This is because of Inherent Limitations  in all internal control systems.
 • Risk—The possibility that an event will occur and adversely affect the achieve
-
ment of objectives.
 • Risk Response—The decision to accept, avoid, reduce, or share a risk. 
 • Risk Tolerance—The acceptable variation relative to performance to the 
achievement of objectives.
 • Senior Management—The chief executive officer or equivalent organizational 
leader and senior management team.
 • Stakeholders—Parties that are affected by the entity, such as sharehold -
ers, the communities in which an entity operates, employees, customers, 
and suppliers. 
 • Technology—Software applications running on a computer, manufacturing 
controls systems, etc.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
142Post Public Exposure Version
Appendices
 • Technology General Controls—Control activities that help ensure the con -
tinued, proper operation of technology. They include controls over the tech -
nology infrastructure, security management, and technology acquisition, 
development, and maintenance. Other terms sometimes used to describe 
technology general controls are “general computer controls” and “information 
technology controls.”
 • Transaction Controls—Control activities that directly support the actions to 
mitigate transaction processing risks in an entity’s business processes. Trans
-
action controls can be manual or automated and will likely cover the informa -
tion-processing objectives of completeness, accuracy, and validity.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
143Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
B. Roles and Responsibilities
Introduction 
Internal control is effected by personnel internal to the organization, including the board 
of directors or equivalent oversight body and its committees, management and person -
nel, business-enabling functions, and internal auditors. Collectively, they contribute to 
providing reasonable assurance that specified objectives are achieved. When out -
sourced service providers perform controls on behalf of the entity, management retains 
responsibility for those controls.
An organization may view internal control through three lines of defense:
 • Management and other personnel on the front line provide the first line of 
defense as they are responsible for maintaining effective internal control day 
to day; they are compensated based on performance in relation to all appli
-
cable objectives.
 • Business-enabling functions such as risk, control, legal, and compliance 
provide the second line of defense as they clarify internal control requirements 
and evaluate adherence to defined standards. While they are functionally 
aligned to the business, their compensation is not directly tied to performance 
of the area to which they render expert advice.
 • Internal auditors provide the third line of defense as they assess and report 
on internal control and recommend corrective actions or enhancements for 
management to consider and implement; their position and compensation are 
separate and distinct from the business areas they review.
Parties external to the organization, such as customers, vendors, and outsourced 
service providers, may perform controls or provide information useful for conducting 
internal control. The entity may audit any outsourced service provider’s adherence to 
contractual obligations, which may include standards of conduct, standards of per -
formance, and required communications. The entity may also assess the underlying 
controls, including controls over the quality of data and information provided by the 
entity to the outsourced service provider, the provider’s controls over processing of 
that data and information, and the reasonableness of the outputs from that processing. 
However, these outsourced service providers are not responsible for the entity’s system 
of internal control. 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
144
487 
488 
489 Post Public Exposure Version
Appendices
Responsible Parties
Every individual within an entity has a role in effecting internal control. Roles vary in 
responsibility and level of involvement, as discussed below.
The Board of Directors and Its Committees
Depending on the jurisdiction and nature of the organization, different governance 
structures may be established, such as a board of directors, supervisory board, trust -
ees, and/or general partners, with committees as appropriate. In the Framework, these 
governance structures are commonly referred to as the board of directors.
The board is responsible for overseeing the system of internal control. With the power 
to engage or terminate the chief executive officer, the board has a key role in defining 
expectations about integrity and ethical values, transparency, and accountability for the 
performance of internal control responsibilities. Board members are objective, capable, 
and inquisitive. They have a working knowledge of the entity’s activities and environ -
ment, and they commit the time necessary to fulfill their governance responsibilities. 
They utilize resources as needed to investigate any issues, and they have an open and 
unrestricted communications channel with all entity personnel, the internal auditors, 
independent auditors, external reviewers, and legal counsel.
Boards of directors often carry out certain duties through committees, whose use varies 
depending on regulatory requirements and other considerations. Board committees 
may be used for oversight of audit, compensation, nominations and governance, risk, 
and other topics significant for the organization. Each committee can bring specific 
emphasis to certain components of internal control. Where a particular committee has 
not been established, the related functions are carried out by the board itself.
Board-level committees can include the following:
 • Audit Committee—Regulatory and professional standard-setting bodies 
often require the use of audit committees. The role and scope of authority 
of an audit committee can vary depending on the organization’s regulatory 
jurisdiction, industry norm, or other variables. This is sometimes also called 
the audit and risk committee to emphasize the importance of risk oversight. 
Management is responsible for the reliability of the financial statements, but 
an effective audit committee plays a critical oversight role. The board of direc
-
tors, often through its audit committee, has the authority and responsibility to 
question senior management regarding how it is carrying out its internal and 
external reporting responsibilities and to verify that timely corrective actions 
are taken, as necessary.
 
 
As a result of its independence the audit committee, along with a strong 
internal audit function as applicable, is often best positioned, to identify and 
promptly act in situations where senior management overrides controls or 
deviates from expected standards of conduct. The audit committee interacts 
with external auditors, meeting regularly to discuss the scope of planned audit 
procedures and results of audit procedures. Meetings with external auditors 
include executive sessions without management present to provide a forum 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
145
490 
491 
492 
493 
494 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
for further dialogue between external auditors and audit committees. While 
board composition requirements vary, independent directors are important as 
they can provide an objective perspective. For example, the UK, German, and 
other corporate governance codes, and the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) 
and NASDAQ listing requirements define the number and criteria for audit 
committee members to be independent from management and financially 
literate (e.g., at least one member with accounting or financial management 
expertise).
 • Compensation Committee —Establishes the compensation for the chief exec
-
utive officer or equivalent and provides oversight of compensation arrange -
ments to motivate without providing incentives for undue risk-taking so as to 
ultimately protect and promote the interest of shareholders or other owners 
of the entity. It oversees senior management in its role to balance perfor
-
mance measures, incentives, and rewards with the pressures created by the 
entity’s objectives, and helps structure compensation practices to support the 
achievement of the entity’s objectives without unduly emphasizing short-term 
results over long-term performance. 
 • Nomination/Governance Committee —Provides control over the selection of 
candidates for directors and senior management. It regularly assesses and 
nominates members of the board of directors; makes recommendations 
regarding the board’s composition, operations, and performance; oversees 
the succession planning process for the chief executive officer and other key 
executives; and develops oversight discipline, processes, and structures. It 
promotes director orientations and training and evaluates oversight structures 
and processes (e.g., board/committee evaluations).
 • Other Committees—There may be other committees of the board of directors 
that oversee specific areas. These committees are often established in large 
organizations or due to particular circumstances of the entity. For example, in 
an industry where compliance with certain laws and regulations is fundamen
-
tal to the survival or development of the organization, a board-level compli -
ance committee may be necessary. Risk committees are formed to focus on 
changes in risk levels and related impacts, and oversight of risk responses. 
Further to board committees that provide oversight, management-level com
-
mittees often exist to provide guidance in the execution of specific areas, such 
as compliance committees, new product committees, and others.
Chief Executive Officer
The chief executive officer (CEO) is accountable to the board of directors and is respon -
sible for designing, implementing, and conducting an effective system of internal 
control. In privately owned, not-for-profit, or other entities, the equivalent role may have 
a different title but generally covers the same responsibilities as described below. More 
than any other individual, the CEO sets the tone at the top that affects the control envi -
ronment and all other components of internal control. 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
146
495 Post Public Exposure Version
Appendices
The CEO’s responsibilities relating to internal control include:
 • Providing leadership and direction to senior management. With the support of 
management, the CEO shapes entity values, standards, expectations of com -
petence, organizational structure, and accountability that form the foundation 
of the entity’s internal control system (e.g. specifies entity-wide objectives 
and policies). 
 • Maintaining oversight and control over the risks facing the entity (e.g., direct
-
ing all management and other personnel to proactively identify risks to the 
system of internal control, considering the ever-increasing pace of change and 
networked interactions of business partners, outsourced service providers, 
customers, employees, and others and resulting risk factors). 
 • Guiding the development and performance of control activities at the entity 
level, and delegating to various levels of management the design, implemen
-
tation, conduct, and assessment of internal control at different levels of the 
entity (e.g., processes and controls to be established).
 • Communicating expectations (e.g., integrity, competence, key policies) and 
information requirements (e.g., the type of planning and reporting systems the 
entity will use).
 • Evaluating control deficiencies and the impact on the ongoing and long-
term effectiveness of the system of internal control (e.g., meeting regularly 
with senior management from each of the operating units such as, research 
and development, production, marketing, sales) and major business-
enabling functions such as finance, human resources, legal, compliance, 
risk management to evaluate how they are carrying out their internal control 
responsibilities. 
In certain jurisdictions, the CEO (and in some cases also the chief financial officer) 
is required by law to specifically certify the effectiveness of internal control over 
financial reporting.
Chief Financial Officer
The chief financial officer (CFO) supports the CEO in front-line responsibilities, including 
internal control over financial reporting. The CFO is integrally involved when the entity’s 
strategies are decided, objectives are specified, risks are analyzed, and decisions are 
made on how changes will be managed. 
The CFO provides valuable input and direction and is positioned to focus on evaluating 
and following up on the actions decided by management. As such, the CFO is an equal 
partner with the other functional heads. Narrowing this role (e.g., limiting it to financial 
reporting and treasury) can limit the entity’s ability to succeed.
In certain jurisdictions, the CFO is required by law to certify to the effectiveness of inter -
nal control over financial reporting, alongside the CEO.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
147
496 
497 
498 
499 
500 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
Other Members of Senior Management
Senior management comprises not only the CEO and CFO but also the other 
senior executives leading the key operating units and business-enabling functions. 
Examples include:
 • Chief administrative officer
 • Chief audit executive and, depending on the size of the entity, chief compli -
ance officer
 • Chief information officer
 • Chief operating officer
 • Chief risk officer
 • Other senior leadership roles, depending on the nature of the business
Senior management guides the development and implementation of internal control 
policies and procedures that address the objectives of their functional or operating unit 
and verify that they are consistent with the entity-wide objectives. They provide direc -
tion, for example, on a unit’s organizational structure and personnel hiring and training 
practices, as well as budgeting and other information systems that promote control over 
the unit’s activities. As such, through a cascading responsibility structure, each execu -
tive is a CEO for his or her sphere of responsibility.
Senior management assigns responsibility for establishing even more specific inter -
nal control procedures to those personnel responsible for the unit’s functions or 
departments. These subunit managers can play a more hands-on role in devising and 
executing particular internal control procedures. Often, these managers are directly 
responsible for determining resource requirements, training needs, and internal control 
procedures that address unit objectives, such as developing authorization procedures 
for purchasing raw materials, accepting new customers, or reviewing production reports 
to monitor product output. They also make recommendations on the controls, monitor 
their application within processes, and meet with upper-level managers to report on the 
operation of controls.
Depending how many layers of management exist, these subunit managers, or lower-
level supervisory personnel, are directly involved in executing policies and procedures 
at a detailed level. It is their responsibility to execute remedial actions as control excep -
tions or other issues arise. This may involve investigating data-entry errors, transactions 
flagged on exception reports, departmental expense budget variances, or customer 
back orders or product inventory positions. Issues are communicated up the organi -
zation’s reporting structure according to the level of severity. Issues requiring senior 
management oversight include financial performance, product quality, product safety, 
workplace safety, community involvement, compliance with emission targets, or other 
areas related to the achievement of the entity’s objectives. 
Management’s responsibilities come with specific authority and accountability. Each 
manager is accountable to the next higher level for his or her portion of the internal 
control system, with the CEO being ultimately accountable to the board of directors, 
and the board being accountable to shareholders or other owners of the entity.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
148
501 
502 
503 
504 
505 Post Public Exposure Version
Appendices
Business-Enabling Functions
Various organizational functions or operating units support the entity through special -
ized skills, such as risk management, finance, controllers, product/service quality man -
agement, technology, compliance, legal, human resources, and others. They provide 
guidance and assessment of internal control related to their areas of expertise, and it is 
incumbent on them to share and evaluate issues and trends that transcend organiza -
tional units or functions. They keep the organization informed of relevant requirements 
as they evolve over time (e.g., new or changing laws and regulations across a multitude 
of jurisdictions). Such business-enabling functions are referred to as the second line of 
defense, while front-line personnel execute their control activities.
While all controls function to serve a purpose, their efforts are coordinated and inte -
grated as appropriate. For example, a company’s new customer acceptance process 
may be reviewed by the compliance function from a regulatory perspective, by the risk 
management function from a concentration risk perspective, and by the internal audit 
function to assess the design and effectiveness of controls. Disruptions to the busi -
ness process are minimized when the timing and approach to reviews and management 
of issues are coordinated to the extent possible. Integration of efforts helps create a 
common language and platform for evaluating and addressing internal control matters, 
as business-enabling functions guide the organization in achieving its objectives.
Risk and Control Personnel
Risk and control functions are part of the second line of defense. Depending on the size 
and complexity of the organization, dedicated risk and control personnel may support 
functional management to manage different risk types (e.g., operational, financial, quan -
titative, qualitative) by providing specialized skills and guidance to front-line manage -
ment and other personnel and evaluating internal control. These activities can be part of 
an entity’s centralized or corporate organization or they can be set up with “dotted line” 
reporting to functional heads. Risk and control functions are central to the way manage -
ment maintains control over business activities.
Responsibilities of risk and control personnel include identifying known and emerging 
risks, helping management develop processes to manage such relevant risks, com -
municating and providing education on these processes across the organization, and 
evaluating and reporting on the effectiveness of such processes. The chief risk/control 
officer is responsible for reporting to senior management and the board on significant 
risks to the business and whether these risks are managed within the entity’s estab -
lished tolerance levels, with adequate internal control in place. Despite such significant 
responsibilities, risk and control personnel are not responsible for executing controls, 
but support overall the achievement of internal control. 
Legal and Compliance Personnel
Counsel from legal professionals is key to defining effective controls for compliance 
with regulations and managing the possibility of lawsuits. In large and complex organi -
zations, specialized compliance professionals can be helpful in defining and assessing 
controls for adherence to both external and internal requirements. The chief legal/com -
pliance officer is responsible for ensuring that legal, regulatory, and other requirements 
are understood and communicated to those responsible for effecting compliance.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
149
506 
507 
508 
509 
510 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
A close working relationship between business management and legal and compliance 
personnel provides a strong basis for designing, implementing, and conducting internal 
control to manage adverse outcomes such as regulatory sanctions, legal liability, and 
failure to adhere to internal compliance policies and procedures. At smaller organiza -
tions, legal and compliance roles may be shared by the same professional, or one of 
these roles can be outsourced with close oversight by management.
Other Personnel
Internal control is the responsibility of everyone in an entity and therefore constitutes 
an explicit or implicit part of everyone’s job description. Front-line personnel con -
stitute the first line of defense in the performance of internal control responsibilities. 
Examples include:
 • Control Environment—Reading, understanding, and applying the standards of 
conduct of the organization
 • Risk Assessment—Identifying and evaluating risks to the achievement of 
objectives and understanding established risk tolerances relating to their 
areas of responsibility
 • Control Activities—Performing reconciliations, following up on exception 
reports, performing physical inspections, and investigating reasons for cost 
variances or other performance indicators
 • Information and Communication —Producing and sharing information used 
in the internal control system (e.g., inventory records, work-in-process data, 
sales or expense reports) or taking other actions needed to effect control 
 • Monitoring Activities—Supporting efforts to identify and communicate to 
higher-level management issues in operations, non-compliance with the code 
of conduct, or other violations of policy or illegal actions 
The care with which those activities are performed directly affects the effectiveness of 
the internal control system. Internal control relies on checks and balances, including 
segregation of duties, and on employees not “looking the other way.” Personnel under -
stands the need to resist pressure from superiors to participate in improper activi -
ties, and channels outside normal reporting lines are available to permit reporting of 
such circumstances.
Internal Auditors
As the third line of defense, internal auditors provide assurance and advisory support 
to management on internal control. Depending on the jurisdiction, size of the entity, and 
nature of the business, this function may be required or optional, internal or outsourced, 
large or small. In all cases, internal audit activities are expected to be carried out by 
competent and professional resources aligned to the risks relevant to the entity.
The internal audit activity includes evaluating the adequacy and effectiveness of con -
trols in responding to risks within the organization’s oversight, operations, and informa -
tion systems regarding. For example:
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
150
511 
512 
513 
514 
515 Post Public Exposure Version
Appendices
 • Reliability and integrity of financial and operational information
 • Effectiveness and efficiency of operations and programs 
 • Safeguarding of assets
 • Compliance with laws, regulations, policies, procedures, and contracts
All activities within an organization are potentially within the scope of the internal audi -
tor’s responsibility. In some entities, the internal audit function is heavily involved with 
controls over operations. For example, internal auditors may periodically monitor pro -
duction quality, test the timeliness of shipments to customers, or evaluate the efficiency 
of the plant layout. In other entities, the internal audit function may focus primarily on 
compliance or financial reporting–related activities. In all cases, they demonstrate the 
necessary knowledge of the business and independence to provide a meaningful evalu -
ation of internal control.
The scope of internal auditing is typically expected to include oversight, risk manage -
ment, and internal control, and assisting the organization in maintaining effective control 
by evaluating their effectiveness and efficiency and by promoting continual improve -
ment. Internal audit communicates findings and interacts directly with management, the 
audit committee, and/or the board of directors. 
Internal auditors maintain an impartial view of the activities they audit through their skills 
and authority within the entity. Internal auditors have functional reporting to the audit 
committee and/or the board of directors and administrative reporting to the chief execu -
tive officer or other members of senior management. 
Internal auditors are objective when not placed in a position of subordinating their judg -
ment on audit matters to that of others and when protected from other threats to their 
objectivity. The primary protection against these threats is appropriate internal auditor 
reporting lines and staff assignments. These assignments are made to avoid potential 
and actual conflicts of interest and bias. Internal auditors do not assume operating 
responsibilities, nor are they assigned to audit activities with which they were involved 
recently in connection with prior operating assignments.
External Parties
A number of external parties can contribute to the achievement of the entity’s objec -
tives, whether by performing activities as outsourced service providers or by providing 
data or analysis to functional/operational personnel. In both cases, functional/opera-
tional management always retains full responsibility for the internal control.
Outsourced Service Providers
Many organizations outsource business functions, delegating their roles and respon -
sibilities for day-to-day management to outside service providers. Administrative, 
finance, human resources, technology, legal, and even select internal operations can be 
executed by parties outside the organization, with the objective of obtaining access to 
enhanced capabilities at a lower cost. For example, a financial institution may outsource 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
151
516 
517 
518 
519 
520 
521 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
its loan review process to a third party, a technology company may outsource the oper -
ation and maintenance of its information technology processing, and a retail company 
may outsource its internal audit function. While these external parties execute activities 
for or on behalf of the organization, management cannot abdicate its responsibility to 
manage the associated risks. It must implement a program to evaluate those activities 
performed by others on their behalf to assess the effectiveness of the system of internal 
control over the activities performed by outsourced service providers.
Other Parties Interacting with the Entity
Customers, vendors, and others transacting business with the entity are an important 
source of information used in conducting control activities. For example:
 • A customer can inform a company about shipping delays, inferior product 
quality, or failure to otherwise meet the customer’s needs for product or 
service. Or a customer may be more proactive and work with an entity in 
developing needed product enhancements.
 • A vendor can provide statements or information regarding completed or open 
shipments and billings, which may be used to identify and correct discrepan
-
cies and to reconcile balances.
 • A potential supplier can notify senior management of an employee’s request 
for a kickback.
 • Experts can provide market data to help the organization adapt its busi
-
ness model and supporting processes and controls to new challenges 
and opportunities.
 • A non-governmental organization or newspaper may publish reports on 
working or environmental conditions at a supplier or sub-supplier.
Such information sharing between management and external parties can be important 
to the entity in achieving its operations, reporting, and compliance objectives. The entity 
has mechanisms in place with which to receive such information and to take appropriate 
action on a timely basis—that is, it not only addresses the particular situation reported, 
but also investigates the underlying source of an issue and fixes it.
In addition to customers and vendors, other parties, such as creditors, can provide 
insight on the achievement of an entity’s objectives. A bank, for example, may request 
reports on an entity’s compliance with certain debt covenants and recommend perfor -
mance indicators or other desired targets or controls.
Independent Auditors
In some jurisdictions, the auditor is engaged to audit or examine the effectiveness of 
internal control over external financial reporting in addition to auditing the financial 
statements. Based on the audit, the auditor is often able to provide information to 
management that will be useful in conducting its oversight responsibilities, in particular 
by communicating: 
 • Audit findings, analytical information, and recommendations for use in taking 
actions necessary to achieve established objectives
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
152
522 
523 
524 
525 Post Public Exposure Version
Appendices
 • Findings regarding deficiencies in internal control that come to its attention, 
and by making recommendations for improvement
In some jurisdictions, the auditor is also legally required to express an opinion on the 
effectiveness of the internal control over external financial reporting in addition to his 
or her opinion on the financial statements. Notwithstanding the depth and nature of the 
independent auditor’s work, this is not a replacement or a supplement to an adequate 
system of internal control, which remains the full responsibility of management.
Such information frequently relates not only to financial reporting but to operations and 
compliance activities as well. The information is reported to and acted upon by manage -
ment and, depending on its significance, to the board of directors or audit committee.
External Reviewers
Subject matter specialists can be solicited or mandated to review specific areas of the 
organization’s internal control. Recognizing the various requirements or expectations of 
its stakeholders, an organization often seeks expert advice to translate these into poli -
cies and procedures, as well as communications and training, and evaluation of adher -
ence to such requirements and standards. Workplace safety, environmental concerns, 
and fair trade practices are some examples of areas where an organization proactively 
seeks to ensure that it is complying with governing rules and standards. Certain func -
tional areas may also be reviewed to promote greater effectiveness and efficiency of 
operations, such as compliance reviews, information systems penetration testing, and 
employment practices assessments.
Legislators and Regulators
Legislators and regulators can affect the internal control systems through specific 
requirements to establish internal control across the organization and/or through 
examinations of particular operating units. Many entities have long been subject to 
legal requirements for internal control. For example, companies listed on a US stock 
exchange are expected to establish and maintain a system of internal control, and legis -
lation requires that senior executives of publicly listed companies certify to the effec -
tiveness of their company’s internal control over financial reporting.
Various regulations require that public companies establish and maintain internal 
accounting control systems that satisfy specified objectives. Various laws and regu -
lations apply to financial assistance programs, which address a variety of activities 
ranging from civil rights to cash management, and specify required internal control 
procedures or practices. Several regulatory agencies directly examine entities for 
which they have oversight responsibility. For example, federal and state bank examin -
ers conduct examinations of banks and often focus on certain aspects of the banks’ 
internal control systems. These agencies make recommendations and are frequently 
empowered to take enforcement action. Thus, legislators and regulators affect the inter -
nal control systems in several ways:
 • They establish rules that provide the impetus for management to establish an 
internal control system that meets statutory and regulatory requirements.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
153
526 
527 
528 
529 
530 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
 • Through examination of a particular entity, they provide information used by 
the entity’s internal control system and provide comment letters, recommen -
dations, and sometimes directives to management on needed internal control 
system improvements.
 • They may receive and, in turn, investigate, whistle-blower allegations.
Financial Analysts, Bond Rating Agencies, and the News Media
Financial analysts, rating agencies, and news media personnel analyze management’s 
performance against strategies and objectives by considering historical financial state -
ments and prospective financial information, actions taken in response to conditions 
in the economy and marketplace, potential for success in the short and long term, and 
industry performance and peer-group comparisons, among other factors. Such inves -
tigative activities can provide insights, among many other outcomes, into the state of 
internal control and how management is responding to enhancing internal control. 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
154
531 Post Public Exposure Version
Appendices
C.  Specific Considerations for 
Smaller Entities
Characteristics of Smaller Entities
Many different perceptions exist as to what constitutes a “smaller” entity. Some think 
of a local, family-owned hardware store or corner bakery as a typical small business. 
Others may think of a not-for-profit entity that generates several million dollars in annual 
donations. Still others see a small entity in the context of a company that has been 
public for many years manufacturing an innovative product, and which now generates 
annual revenue of several hundred million dollars with hopes that future growth will 
catapult it to the Fortune 500 category. Depending on perspective, any or all of these 
may be considered “smaller” entities.
The Framework does not provide a definition in terms of revenue, capitalization, or 
other factors; that is the role of regulators or other parties. Instead, the term “smaller” 
rather than “small,” suggesting there is a wide range of entities to which these con -
siderations apply. The focus here is on smaller entities that have many of the following 
characteristics:
 • Fewer lines of business and fewer products within lines
 • Concentration of marketing focus by channel or geography
 • Leadership by management with significant ownership interest or rights
 • Fewer levels of management with wider spans of control
 • Less complex transaction processing systems
 • Fewer personnel, many having a wider range of duties
 • Limited ability to maintain deep resources in line as well as support staff posi -
tions such as legal, human resources, accounting, and internal auditing
The last bulleted item, limited ability to maintain deep resources, is a frequent cause of 
smaller entities being lower on the economies-of-scale curve. Often, but not always, 
smaller entities have a higher per-unit cost of producing a product or providing a 
service. On the other hand, many smaller entities achieve competitive advantage in cost 
savings through innovation, lower overhead (by retaining fewer people and substituting 
variable for fixed costs via a part-time workforce or variable compensation plans), and a 
narrower focus in terms of product, location, and complexity.
Economies of scale is often a factor affecting support functions, including those directly 
relevant to internal control. For example, establishing an internal audit function within 
a hundred-million-dollar entity likely would require a larger percentage of economic 
resources than would be the case for a multi-billion-dollar entity. Certainly, the smaller 
entity’s internal audit function would be smaller, and might rely on co-sourcing or out -
sourcing to provide needed skills, where the larger entity’s function might have a broad 
range of experienced personnel in-house. But in all likelihood the relative cost for the 
smaller entity would be higher than for the larger one.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
155
532 
533 
534 
535 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
None of the above characteristics by themselves are definitive. Certainly, size, by what -
ever measure—revenue, spending, personnel, assets, or other—affects and is affected 
by these characteristics, and shapes our thinking about what constitutes “smaller.”
Meeting Challenges in Attaining Cost-Effective 
Internal Control
The characteristics of smaller entities tend to provide significant challenges for cost-
effective internal control. Often managers of smaller entities view control as an admin -
istrative burden to be added to existing business processes, rather than recognizing 
the business need for and benefit of effective internal control that is integrated with 
core processes.
Among the challenges are:
 • Obtaining sufficient resources to achieve adequate segregation of duties
 • Balancing management’s ability to dominate activities, with significant oppor -
tunities for improper management override of processes in order to appear 
that business performance goals have been met
 • Recruiting individuals with requisite expertise to serve effectively on the board 
of directors and committees 
 • Recruiting and retaining personnel with sufficient experience and skill in 
operations, reporting, compliance, and other disciplines 
 • Taking critical management attention from running the business in order to 
provide sufficient focus on internal control 
 • Controlling information technology and maintaining appropriate general 
and application controls over computer information systems with limited 
technical resources.
Despite resource constraints, smaller entities usually can meet these challenges and 
succeed in attaining effective internal control in a reasonably cost-effective manner.
Segregation of Duties
Many smaller entities have limited numbers of employees performing various func -
tions, which sometimes results in inadequate segregation of duties. There are, however, 
actions that management can take to compensate for this circumstance. Following are 
some types of controls that can be implemented:
 • Review Reports of Detailed Transactions —Managers review on a regular and 
timely basis system reports of the detailed transactions. 
 • Review Selected Transactions—Managers select transactions for review of 
supporting documents. 
 • Take Periodic Asset Counts—Managers periodically conduct counts of physi -
cal inventory, equipment, or other assets and compare them with the account -
ing records. 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
156
536 
537 
538 
539 
540 Post Public Exposure Version
Appendices
 • Check Reconciliations —Managers from time to time review reconciliations of 
account balances such as cash or perform them independently.
Segregation of duties is not an end in itself, but rather a means of mitigating a risk inher -
ent in processing. When developing or assessing controls that address risks in an entity 
with limited ability to segregate duties, management should consider whether other 
controls satisfactorily address these risks and are applied conscientiously enough to 
reduce risk. 
Management Override
Many smaller entities are dominated by the founder or other strong leader who exer -
cises a great deal of discretion and provides personal direction to other personnel. This 
positioning may be key to enabling the entity to meet its growth and other objectives, 
and can also contribute significantly to effective internal control. With this leader’s in-
depth knowledge of different facets of the enterprise—its operations, processes, array 
of contractual commitments, and business risks—he or she is positioned to know what 
to expect in reports generated by the system and to follow up as needed. Such concen -
tration of knowledge and authority, however, comes with a downside: the leader typi -
cally is able to override established procedures.
There are a few basic but important things that can help to mitigate the risk of manage -
ment override.
 • Maintain a corporate culture where integrity and ethical values are held in high 
esteem, embedded throughout the organization, and practiced on an every -
day basis. This can be supported and reinforced by recruiting, compensat -
ing, and promoting individuals where these values are appropriately reflected 
in behavior. 
 • Implement a whistle-blower program, where personnel feel comfortable 
reporting any improprieties, regardless of the level at which they may be 
committed. Importantly, there must be ability to maintain anonymity and 
confidence that reported matters will be investigated thoroughly and acted 
upon, appropriately and without reprisals. It usually is important that where 
circumstances warrant matters can be reported directly to the board or 
audit committee. 
 • Position an effective internal audit function to detect instances of wrongdoing 
and breakdowns at the entity and sub-unit levels. Ready access to relevant 
information and ability to communicate directly with and senior management 
and the board or audit committee are key factors. 
 • Attract and retain qualified board members that take their responsibilities 
seriously to perform the critical role of preventing or detecting instances of 
management override.
Such practices mitigate the risk of impropriety and promote accountability of leader -
ship, while gaining the unique advantages of cost-effective internal control in a smaller 
entity environment.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
157
541 
542 
543 
544 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
Board of Directors
The discussion above highlights the need for a board of directors with requisite exper -
tise to perform its oversight responsibilities well. With appropriate knowledge, attention, 
and communication, the board is positioned to provide an effective means of offsetting 
the effects of improper management override. In smaller entities, board directors typi -
cally have in-depth knowledge of what usually are relatively straightforward business 
operations, and they communicate more closely with a broader range of personnel. 
Many smaller entities, however, find it very difficult to attract independent directors with 
the desired skills and experience. Typical challenges to finding suitable directors include 
inadequate knowledge of the entity and its people, the entity’s limited ability to provide 
compensation commensurate with board responsibilities, a sense that the chief execu -
tive might be unaccustomed or unwilling to appropriately share governance responsibili -
ties, or concerns about potential personal liability. 
Some entities have been willing to address the concerns of desired board candidates 
and have expanded their search to broader populations with financial and accounting 
and other valued expertise. In this way, they can shape the the board to not only appro -
priately monitor senior management, but also to provide value-added advice.
Information Technology
Many smaller entities do not have the extensive technical resources necessary to 
develop, maintain, and operate software in an adequately controlled manner. Thus, 
these entities consider alternatives to meet their information and control needs.
Many smaller entities use software developed and maintained by others. These pack -
ages still require controlled implementation and operation, but many of the risks asso -
ciated with systems developed in-house are reduced. For example, typically there is 
less need for program change controls, inasmuch as changes are done exclusively by 
the developer, and generally the personnel in a smaller entity don’t have the technical 
expertise to attempt to make unauthorized program modifications.
Commercially developed packages can bring additional advantages. Such packages 
may provide embedded facility for controlling which employees in the entity can access 
or modify specified data, performing checks on data processing completeness and 
accuracy, and maintaining related documentation.
Monitoring Activities
The monitoring activities component is an important part of the Framework, where a 
wide range of activities routinely performed by managers in running a business can 
provide information on the functioning of other components of the internal control 
system. Management of many smaller entities regularly perform such activities, but 
have not always taken sufficient credit for their contribution to the effectiveness of inter -
nal control. These activities, usually performed manually and sometimes supported by 
computer software, should be fully considered in designing, implementing, and con -
ducting internal control and assessing the effectiveness of internal control.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
158
545 
546 
547 
548 
549 
550 Post Public Exposure Version
Appendices
D.  Methodology for Revising the 
Framework
Background
In November 2010, the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway 
Commission (COSO) announced a project to review and update its Internal Control—
Integrated Framework (Framework). This initiative was expected to make the existing 
Framework and related evaluation tools more relevant in the increasingly complex 
industry, operating and regulatory environment so that organizations worldwide could 
better design, implement, and conduct internal control and assess its effectiveness. As 
the original author of the Framework, PwC conducted this project by bringing together 
in-depth understanding of the 1992 Framework and rationale for decisions made in cre -
ating the Framework, and sought input from users, stakeholders, and senior resources 
who provided current perspectives on internal control. 
The Framework has been widely accepted by organizations in implementing, design -
ing, conducting , and assessing internal control relating to operations, compliance, and 
financial reporting objectives, and more recently to internal control over financial report -
ing in compliance with the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (SOX) and similar regulatory 
requirements in other countries. Enhancement provided by this project is not intended 
to change how internal control is defined, assessed, or managed, but rather to provide 
relevant conceptual guidance and practical examples. 
Project Structure
The COSO Board formed an Advisory Council comprising representatives from indus -
tries, academia, government agencies, and non-profit entities, and observers from 
regulators and standard setters to provide input as the project progressed. In addition, 
the Framework has been exposed to the public to capture additional input. Such due 
process has helped the update adequately address current challenges for organizations 
within their internal control. 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
159
551 
552 
553 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
Approach
The project consisted of four phases: 
 • Assess and Envision—Through literature reviews, global surveys, and public 
forums, this phase identified current challenges for organizations in imple -
menting the Framework. During this phase, the PwC Project Team analyzed 
information, reviewed various sources of input, and identified critical issues 
and concerns. COSO launched a global survey, available to the general public 
for providing input on the Framework, soliciting over 700 responses. 
 • Build and Design—The PwC ProjectTeam developed the update, including 
principles and points of focus. The update draft was reviewed by key users 
and stakeholder groups to solidify reactions and suggestions.
 • Preparation for Public Exposure —The PwC Project Team refined the update 
through reviews with the general public. The COSO Board and Advisory 
Council also considered whether the updated Framework was sound, logical, 
and useful to management of all sizes.
 • Public Exposure—In this phase, the Framework was issued for public expo
-
sure for a 104-day comment period. Once the comments were received. The 
PwC Project Team reviewed and analyzed them, and identified any needed 
modifications. The updated Framework is also made available for comment 
during the public exposure of the companion documents: Internal Control over 
External Financial Reporting : Compendium of Approaches and Examples , and 
Illustrative Tools for Assessing Effectiveness of a System of Internal Control . 
 • Finalization—The PwC Project Team will finalize the Framework and related 
publications and provide these documents to the COSO Board for review 
and acceptance.
Within each project phase and between phases, as one might expect, many different 
and sometimes contradictory observations or recommendations were expressed on 
fundamental issues relating to internal control. The project team, with COSO Board 
oversight, carefully considered merits of positions put forth, both individually and in the 
context of related issues, and revised the Framework when they that helped the devel -
opment of a relevant, logical, and internally consistent publication on internal control. 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
160
554 
555 Post Public Exposure Version
Appendices
E. Public Comment Letters
As noted in Appendix D, Methodology for Revising the Framework, a draft of the 
Framework was issued for public comment from December 19, 2011, through March 31, 
2012. There were more than 100 public responses to the online survey and 96 public 
comment letters relating to this exposure draft. These letters contained more than 1,000 
comments on many different aspects of the updated Framework, and each comment 
was considered in further revisions. This appendix summarizes the more significant 
comments and any resulting modifications to the Framework.
Many respondents concurred with COSO that the updates to the Framework are 
expected to help management strengthen existing systems of internal control by 
responding to many changes in the business and operating environments over the 
past twenty years, codifying principles associated with the five components of inter -
nal control, and expanding the reporting objective to include other important forms 
of reporting. There were divergent views as to whether the updates to the Framework 
would set a higher threshold for attaining effective internal control, impose additional 
burdens on entities that report on internal control, and should incorporate additional 
aspects of enterprise risk management. 
Whereas some respondents sought fundamental changes to the Framework, others 
recognized that the Framework remains relevant and useful today and should be used 
as the basis for an update in selected areas, as discussed below.
Definition of Internal Control
Some respondents suggested amending the definition in different ways. Individual sug -
gestions included aligning the definition with other standards, embedding risk, remov -
ing objective categories, increasing emphasis on the board, adding anti-fraud/ethical 
behavior expectations, removing the concept of reasonable assurance, expanding the 
reporting objective to include other aspects such as timeliness and transparency, and 
stipulating that effectiveness of internal control is attained by reducing the risk of not 
achieving an objective to an acceptably low  level (emphasis added). Other respondents, 
however, noted that the original definition has gained wide acceptance (e.g., auditing 
standards, legislation and guidance) and should be retained. 
The Framework revises the definition to remove the modifiers from each category of 
objectives. The reasons for this change are that the objectives are discussed in some 
detail later in Chapter1 “Definition of Internal Control”, and with the broadening of the 
reporting category, respondents appropriately identified additional relevant aspects of 
the reporting objective beyond just reliability. 
Other than this change, the Framework retains a broad definition as other suggestions 
are either encompassed in the definition, as amended, or are discussed more appropri -
ately as part of the components of internal control. Finally, incorporating the notion of 
reducing risk to a low level potentially pre-empts management’s judgment as being too 
restrictive for some objectives.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
161
556 
557 
558 
559 
560 
561 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
Reporting, Operations, and Compliance Objectives
Some respondents called for reconsidering the expansion of financial reporting objec -
tives and potential regulatory implications, and reconsidering the measurability of the 
achievement of operations objectives. 
The Framework retains descriptions of the three categories of objectives, provides 
supplemental descriptions of operations and compliance objectives, and clarifies that 
an operations objective can be achieved when a suitable external standard exists.
Principles 
Respondents acknowledged the benefit of codifying into principles internal control con -
cepts introduced in the original framework and that these principles provide clarity for 
management in designing, implementing, and conducting internal control, and assess -
ing the effectiveness of systems of internal control. 
Some respondents suggested folding Principle 11, Selects and Develops General 
Controls over Technology, into Principle 10, Selects and Develops Control Activities, 
based on a view that selecting and developing technology general controls is a subset 
of selecting control activities in general, which are part of Principle 10.
Some also suggested combining Principle 8, Assessing Fraud Risk, into Principle 7, 
Identifies and Analyzes Risks, on the basis that fraud risk may be viewed as only one 
type of risk potentially impacting objectives.
The Framework carries forward the seventeen principles. It retains the principles 
that focus on the use of technology and the assessment of fraud risks, recognizing 
their important role in achieving effective internal control. Some principles were also 
enhanced or clarified based on respondents’ comments.
Assessing Effectiveness
Attributes
Some respondents expressed concern that including attributes (renamed as points of 
focus) may trigger an undesirable checklist mentality by management, auditors, and 
regulators. Other respondents requested clarity on whether attributes represent require -
ments relating to whether principles are present and functioning or whether the Frame -
work presumes that attributes are present and functioning. 
The Framework now replaces the term “attributes” with “points of focus,” consistent 
with the original framework, to reduce the perception that the use of points of focus is 
a requirement. The Framework clarifies the relevance of points of focus by position -
ing them as important considerations in determining whether a principle is present and 
functioning as part of a component, allowing management greater flexibility to exercise 
judgment in considering which points of focus are relevant for the entity. Management 
may use the points of focus presented in the Framework and/or other considerations 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
162
562 
563 
564 
565 
566 
567 
568 
569 Post Public Exposure Version
Appendices
depending on the entity’s industry, operations, and regulatory environment. Accordingly, 
the Framework was revised to remove the presumption that points of focus must be 
present and functioning. 
Points of focus have been removed from Chapter 3, Effective Internal Control, to clarify 
that they are not to be considered requirements associated with the relevant principles. 
Instead, they are introduced and their relevance clarified in Chapter 4, Additional Con -
siderations. Within the respective component chapters, they are listed after the principle 
to which they apply. 
Classification of Internal Control Deficiencies
Some respondents suggested removing major and minor non-conformities, and using 
a consistent terminology for all categories of objectives in the Framework. Some 
further suggested using terms “significant deficiency” and “material weakness” for 
all categories. 
The Framework presents a revised terminology when generally referring to the severity 
of deficiencies, and uses the terms “deficiencies” and “major deficiencies.” However, 
the Framework acknowledges that the terms “significant deficiency” and “material 
weakness” are used in the context of external laws, standards, and regulations, and 
that the user will need to consider specific terms and criteria established by such laws, 
standards, and regulations.
Objective-Setting
Some respondents suggested that the Framework include objective-setting as a com -
ponent of internal control. Others suggested that objective-setting remain a precondi -
tion of internal control, and that the Framework provide greater clarity of the role of 
assessing suitability of objectives within internal control. 
The Framework retains the five components and the concept that establishing objec -
tives is a precondition to internal control. It clarifies the distinction between establishing 
objectives (outside the system of internal control) and specifying objectives (within the 
system of internal control) in Chapter 2, Objectives, Components, and Principles. The 
Framework expands discussion on suitability of objectives and explains how manage -
ment should respond when specified objectives are viewed as unsuitable within the 
Risk Assessment chapter.
Objectives
Safeguarding of Assets
Some respondents suggested including safeguarding of assets as a category of objec -
tives based on established laws, regulations, and standards. Others suggested that 
safeguarding of assets is part of each category of objectives. 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
163
570 
571 
572 
573 
574 
575 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
The Framework retains safeguarding of assets as an operations objective, consistent 
with the original framework. The Internal Control-Integrated Framework, Addendum 
to Reporting Parties  (May 1994) affirmed that the definition of internal control relates 
to operations, compliance, and financial reporting objectives, as set out in the original 
framework, and remains appropriate. The Addendum  also concluded that when man -
agement reports on internal control over financial reporting there is a reasonable expec -
tation that such report covers controls to help prepare financial statements and prevent 
or detect in a timely manner any unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of assets. 
The Framework acknowledges that some laws, regulations, and standards have estab -
lished safeguarding of assets as a separate category of objective. When management 
reports on an entity’s system of internal control, there may be established objectives 
or sub-objectives relating to physical security, prevention, or timely detection of unau -
thorized acquisition, use, or disposition of assets. The Framework retains the view that 
safeguarding of assets is primarily related to operations, but may be viewed within the 
context of reporting and compliance objective categories.
Strategic Objectives
Some respondents suggested the addition of strategic objectives as a category of 
objectives. Some also suggested that this change was already made in Enterprise 
Risk Management–Integrated Framework  and that the Framework should adopt a 
similar change. 
The Framework retains operations, reporting, and compliance objective categories and 
the concept that strategic objectives are not part of internal control. Including strategy-
setting and strategic objectives would require adding other concepts, including risk 
appetite and risk tolerance, to provide a complete discussion of this objective category. 
These concepts are more appropriate in the context of enterprise risk management, as 
discussed below.
Enterprise Risk Management
Some respondents called for further integration of enterprise risk management con -
cepts into internal control, in particular seeking an expanded discussion of risk toler -
ance and adding risk appetite. Some also sought a merger of COSO’s Enterprise Risk 
Management—Integrated Framework  (ERM Framework) with the Framework. Others 
supported keeping the two frameworks separate and distinct.
The COSO Board considered merging the two frameworks and decided to keep them 
separate and distinct. Accordingly, strategy-setting, strategic objectives, and risk 
appetite remain part of the ERM Framework . The Framework retains the definition of 
risk appetite and the application of risk tolerance and retains strategy-setting as a pre-
condition of internal control. 
The Framework expands the Foreword to acknowledge that the two frameworks are 
intended to be complementary, neither superseding the other. The Framework includes 
a discussion of overlapping concepts in Appendix G. 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
164
576 
577 
578 
579 
580 
581 
582 Post Public Exposure Version
Appendices
Smaller Entities and Governments
Some respondents called for expanded guidance specific to smaller entities and gov -
ernments. Some suggested that the Framework specifically highlight the differences in 
applicability to such entities. Others suggested that the length of document is poten -
tially overwhelming for smaller organizations.
The Framework contains additional discussion relating to Principle 2, Exercises Over -
sight Responsibility concerning smaller entities. Additional discussion from the 2006 
COSO Guidance for Smaller Public Entities  is included in Appendix C. This appendix 
has been expanded to consider entities beyond smaller public companies and has rel -
evance for other smaller entities.
Technology
Some respondents commented, in general, on expanding the guidance on technology in 
the Framework. Others suggested including detailed technology topics such as backup 
and recovery in Principle 11, Selects and Develops General Controls over Technology. 
And still others suggested adding detailed risks associated with current technology 
initiatives such as cloud computing or continuous auditing techniques. Some recom -
mended referring to or incorporating other established frameworks specifically address -
ing technology controls and other considerations. 
The Framework includes enhanced discussion on technology both in the points of 
focus and in various chapters. The Framework does not include extensive discussion 
on specific current technology initiatives or the risks associated with them because of 
the evolving nature of technology and concerns that the Framework may become dated. 
The Framework does not explicitly reference other technology-focused frameworks 
by name.
Structure and Layout
Some respondents expressed concern about the length of the Framework and sug -
gested presenting only those requirements of internal control. Others suggested revis -
ing the structure to emphasize requirements versus supplemental guidance. 
The COSO Board continues to believe that the Framework comprises all chapters. The 
Board acknowledges, however, the importance of clearly setting forth that components 
and relevant principles are requirements of an effective system of internal control. 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
165
583 
584 
585 
586 
587 
588 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
F.  Summary of Changes to the 
Internal Control—Integrated 
Framework Issued in 1992
This Appendix summarizes the broad changes from the original edition issued in 1992, 
as well as changes made within each of the five components of internal control. 
Broadbased Changes
The following significant changes are evident across all areas of the Framework:
 • Applies a principles-based approach —The updated Framework focuses 
greater attention on principles. While the original framework implicitly reflected 
the core principles of internal control, the 2012 version explicitly states the 
seventeen principles, which represent the fundamental concepts associated 
with the components of internal control. These principles remain broad as 
they are intended to apply to for-profit companies, including publicly traded 
and privately held companies; not-for-profit entities; government bodies; and 
other organizations. Supporting each principle are points of focus, represent
-
ing characteristics associated with the principles. The components and prin -
ciples comprise the criteria that will assist management in assessing whether 
an entity has effective internal control.
 • Expands the reporting category of objectives —The financial reporting objec
-
tive category is expanded to consider other external reporting beyond finan -
cial reporting, as well as internal reporting, both financial and non-financial.
 • Clarifies the role of objective-setting in internal control —The original frame-
work stated that objective-setting was a management process, and that 
establishing objectives is a pre-condition to internal control. The updated 
Framework preserves that view and expands the discussion on specifying 
objectives and considered suitability of established objective. This discussion 
is included in Chapter 2, Objectives, Components, and Principles.
 • Enhances governance concepts —The updated publication includes 
expanded discussion on governance relating to the board of directors 
and committees of the board, including audit, compensation, nomination/
governance committees.
 • Considers globalization of markets and operations —Organizations expand 
beyond domestic markets in the pursuit of value, entering into international 
markets, and executing cross-border mergers and acquisitions. The updated 
Framework discusses changes in management operating models, legal entity 
structures, and related roles, responsibilities and accountabilities for internal 
control at the entity and subunits level. In addition, it considers the identifi
-
cation and analysis of internal and external risk factors relating to mergers 
and acquisitions.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
166
589 
590 Post Public Exposure Version
Appendices
 • Considers different business models and organizational structures —Busi-
ness models and structures have evolved over the past twenty years, and 
many entities now expand their business models to encompass the use of 
outsourced service providers to provide products or services necessary to 
the ongoing operation of the entity. The competitive landscape, globaliza
-
tion, dynamic industry and technological changes, evolving business models, 
competition for talent, cost management, and other factors have required 
management to look beyond internal operations to access needed resources. 
The updated Framework explicitly considers the extended business model, 
including the responsibilities for internal control in this model and the achieve
-
ment of effective internal control.
 • Considers demands and complexities in laws, rules, regulations, and stan -
dards—Regulators and standard setters promote greater stakeholder pro -
tection and confidence in external reporting through changes in laws, rules, 
regulations, and standards. The updated Framework recognizes the roles of 
regulators and standard-setters in establishing objectives and in providing 
criteria to assess the severity and to report internal control deficiencies.
 • Considers expectations for competencies and accountabilities —Demands 
for greater competence and accountability increase as organizations grow 
more complex, acquire entities, restructure, introduce new products and 
services, and implement new processes and technologies. Organizations may 
flatten and shift management operating models and delegate greater author
-
ity or accountability. The updated Framework broadens the discussion on 
these topics.
 • Reflects the increased relevance of technology —The number of entities that 
use or rely on technology has grown substantially since 1992, along with the 
extent that technology is used in most entities. Technologies have evolved 
from large standalone mainframe environments that process batches of 
transactions to highly sophisticated, decentralized, and mobile applications 
involving multiple real-time activities that can cut across many systems, orga
-
nizations, processes, and technologies. The change in technology can impact 
how all components of internal control are implemented.
 • Enhances consideration of anti-fraud expectations —The original framework 
considered fraud, although the discussion of anti-fraud expectations and the 
relationship between fraud and internal control was less prominent. This 2012 
Framework contains considerably more discussion on fraud and also consid
-
ers the potential of fraud as a principle of internal control.
Overall Framework Layout
The original framework contained one chapter that presented the definition of internal 
control, the components of internal control, the relationship of objectives and compo -
nents, and effectiveness. In the revised Framework, these topics are covered in three 
different chapters: Chapter 1, Definition of Internal Control defines internal control; 
Chapter 2, Objectives, Components and Principles, discusses components of internal 
control and the relationship of objectives, components, and principles; and Chapter 3, 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
167
591 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
Effective Internal Control, considers the requirements for assessing the effectiveness 
of a system of internal control. Further, Chapter 4, Additional Considerations, discusses 
management judgment, points of focus, cost versus benefits of internal control, the 
changing role of technology, documentation, and application of internal control in larger 
versus smaller entities. 
Key Changes to Internal Control Components
Control Environment
In the two decades since the publication of the original framework in 1992, a number 
of factors have pointed to the need for an update on what to consider in establishing a 
sound control environment. There is now greater complexity in business models, with 
enterprises extending to a wide network of third parties and business partners that are 
not only accountable for delivering results but also for adhering to expected standards 
that the organization seeks to uphold. The multiple structures that define organizations 
today, whether by product line, geography, legal entity, or some other factor, require 
a flexible and multidimensional approach to governance and control and the ability to 
report accordingly. 
Today, there is an increased need for transparency of how the organization operates 
and governs itself; reporting now extends beyond financial performance; risk discus -
sions are expected to be more robust and detailed; corporate social responsibility 
reporting matters more to stakeholders; and the pace for publishing such information 
has accelerated. Changes in expectations of governance as a result of regulatory devel -
opments, listing standards, and other stakeholder requirements have mandated certain 
structures and processes. These include independence of board members, disclosures 
of skill profiles, processes for board and audit committee evaluation, and alignment of 
incentives, pressures, and rewards to ensure the right behavior is promoted and nega -
tive behavior is corrected. All of this is designed to keep pace with the evolving risk 
profile of the organization.
In the updated the Control Environment (Chapter 5), key changes include:
 • Combining into five principles the discussions relating to integrity and ethical 
values, commitment to competence, board of directors or audit commit -
tee, management’s philosophy and operating style, organizational structure, 
assignment of authority and responsibility, and human resource policies 
and practices
 • Explaining linkages between the various components of internal control to 
demonstrate the foundational aspects of the control environment for a sound 
system of internal control (e.g., income statement level)
 • Expanding the discussion of governance roles in an organization, recogniz
-
ing differences in structures, requirements, and challenges across different 
jurisdictions, sectors, and types of entities
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
168
592 
593 
594 
595 Post Public Exposure Version
Appendices
 • Clarifying the expectations of integrity and ethical values to reflect lessons 
learned and developments in ethics and compliance (e.g., codes of conduct, 
the attestation process, whistle-blower processes, investigation and resolu
-
tion, and training and reinforcement both internally and with third parties)
 • Expanding the notion of risk oversight and strengthening the linkages between 
risk and performance to help allocate resources to support internal control in 
the achievement of the entity’s objectives
 • Emphasizing the need to consider internal control across the complexi
-
ties in organizational structure resulting from different business models 
and the use of outsourced service providers, business partners, and other 
external partners
 • Aligning roles and responsibilities discussed in organizational structure with 
the information presented in Appendix B (Roles and Responsibilities) so that 
major roles are used consistently within the Framework
Risk Assessment
Since 1992, the attention given to on risk and the risk assessment component of internal 
control has continued to increase, with risk and control being more closely aligned. 
Consequently, many organizations have shifted their thinking away from being prescrip -
tive to taking a more risk-based approach to internal control. Some users of the original 
framework suggested that updates were needed to further enhance the understanding 
of risk and its link to the overall system of internal control. As companies embrace risk 
management and enterprise risk management programs, they are also seeking greater 
clarity of how risk assessments are considered in the context of internal control, and 
what aspects of risk management remain incremental to internal control.
Users also noted that almost half of the original chapter on Risk Assessment focused 
on objectives, and that this focus was not needed if objective-setting was truly a pre -
condition to internal control. Many organizations have expanded their reporting efforts, 
moving to include many other types of external reporting beyond just financial report -
ing. Finally, often in response to events occurring within their organizations, industry, or 
within the general business community, and as a result of expanding legislative pres -
sures in some jurisdictions, many organizations have also increased their efforts relating 
to anti-fraud efforts.
Therefore, Chapter 6, Risk Assessment, reflects these key changes: 
 • Repositioning much of the discussion on objective-setting, which continues 
to be viewed as a pre-condition to risk assessment, to Chapter 2, Objectives, 
Components, and Principles, and no longer including the discussion on cat
-
egories of objectives, linkage between objectives, and achievement of objec -
tives in the Risk Assessment component 
 • Focusing the Risk Assessment component on articulating objectives relat -
ing to operations, reporting, and compliance with sufficient clarity so that 
any risks to those objectives can be identified and assessed, and consid
-
ering the need to assess the suitability of objectives for use as a basis for 
assessing effectiveness
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
169
596 
597 
598 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
 • Broadening the financial reporting category of objectives to include other 
aspects of external reporting and to include internal reporting
 • Reflecting the view that non-financial reporting is conducted in relation to an 
external requirement or standard
 • Clarifying that risk assessment includes processes for risk identification, risk 
analysis, and risk response
 • Expanding the discussion on the risk severity beyond impact and likelihood to 
include such velocity and persistence
 • Incorporating risk tolerances (set as a precondition to internal control and 
pertaining to the level of acceptable variation in performance and the relative 
importance of objectives) into the assessment of acceptable risk levels
 • Expanding the discussion on management needing to understand significant 
changes in its internal and external factors and how those might impact the 
overall system of internal control
 • Considering fraud risk relating to material misstatement of reporting, 
inadequate safeguarding of assets, and corruption as part of the risk 
assessment process
Control Activities
Since 1992, the evolving role of technology in business has perhaps been most evident 
in the implementation of control activities. While the fundamental concepts around 
control activities put forth in the original framework have not changed, technology has 
changed many of the details. Today, information technology is much more integrated 
into business processes throughout any entity. The variety of technologies being used 
at most entities has mushroomed beyond largely centralized information systems in an 
organization’s own data center to myriad decentralized, mobile, intelligent and web-
enabled technologies, which are increasingly located at third-party service organiza -
tions. Also, the recent focus on improving controls in organizations, which has been 
provoked by the marketplace and regulation, has led to a deeper understanding of how 
control activities are effectively designed and implemented.
Therefore, within Chapter 7, Control Activities, key changes include:
 • Broadening the discussion to reflect the evolution in technology since 1992 
(e.g., replacing data center concepts with a more general discussion on the 
technology infrastructure)
 • Expanding the discussion of the relationship between automated control 
activities and general controls over technology to reinforce the linkages to 
business processes, with the details on automated control activities and 
general controls over technology separated into discrete sections to clarify the 
distinction between the two
 • Expanding the discussion that control activities constitute a range of control 
techniques while providing a more detailed description of these types and 
techniques, and a way to categorize them; making distinct transaction level 
controls from controls at other levels of the organization; and discussing in 
more detail information-processing objectives
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
170
599 
600 Post Public Exposure Version
Appendices
 • Updating the discussion on general technology controls to focus on the more 
universal concepts of what needs to be controlled in this area rather than spe -
cifics applicable to 1992 technology
 • Clarifying that control activities are actions established by policies and proce -
dures rather than being the policies and procedures themselves
Information and Communication
The source, volume, and form of information and communication have expanded 
dramatically since 1992. Information sources have grown more diverse and complex, 
spanning outsourced service providers that support all or part of an organization’s 
business processes (e.g., outsourcing service providers, joint ventures) and internal and 
external networks designed to create unstructured information-sharing mechanisms 
(social media).
The volume of information, particularly in the form of raw data, accessible to and col -
lected by organizations, creates both opportunity and risk. The scope of regulatory 
regimes has created greater demand for information, greater expectations for quality 
and protection, and greater requirements for communication. And, as organizations 
and business models have become more complex in structure and geographic reach, 
quality information and its communication within the organization has become an 
imperative. Additionally, the importance of the free flow of information within the orga -
nization to allow management and employees to understand new or changed events or 
circumstances to re-evaluate risks and modify the internal control system has become 
more critical as the legal, management, and functional structures of business entities 
have become more complex.
Within Chapter 8, Information and Communication, key changes include:
 • Emphasizing the discussion of importance of quality of information
 • Expanding the discussion of the expectations for verifying to a source and 
for retention when information is used to support reporting objectives to 
external parties
 • Expanding the discussion on the impact of regulatory requirements on reliabil
-
ity and protection of information
 • Expanding the discussion on the volume and sources of information in light of 
increased complexity of business processes, greater interaction with external 
parties, and technology advances
 • Reflecting the impact of technology and other communication mechanisms on 
the speed, means, and quality of the flow of information
 • Adding content on the information and communication needs between the 
entity and third parties, emphasizing the importance of considering how 
processes may occur outside the entity (e.g., by the use of third-party service 
providers that manage specific processes) and how the entity needs to obtain 
information from and communicate with parties that operate outside its legal 
and operational boundaries
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
171
601 
602 
603 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
Monitoring Activities
In applying the original framework, users often focused monitoring efforts extensively 
on control activities. With the change in regulatory reporting requirements in many juris -
dictions, organizations have begun to consider monitoring in its broader and intended 
context—assisting management in understanding how all components of internal 
control are being applied and whether the overall system of internal control operates 
effectively. To enhance internal consistency among components in the Framework and 
make the discussion more actionable, the title of this component has been updated to 
Monitoring Activities and the discussion has been enhanced.
The changes to the principles in the Framework will not substantially alter the 
approaches developed for COSO’s Guidance on Monitoring Internal Control Systems.
Within Chapter 9, Monitoring Activities, key changes include:
 • Refining the terminology, where the two main categories of monitoring activi -
ties are now referred to as “ongoing evaluations” and “separate evaluations” 
 • Adding the need for a baseline understanding in establishing and evaluating 
ongoing and separate evaluations
 • Expanding discussion of the use of technology and external service providers
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
172
604 
605 Post Public Exposure Version
Appendices
G.   Comparison with COSO 
Enterprise Risk Management—
Integrated Framework
In 2004, COSO issued Enterprise Risk Management—Integrated Framework , which 
establishes a framework for enterprise risk management and provides guidance to busi -
ness and other entities to help them develop and apply their enterprise risk manage -
ment activities. The Framework identifies and describes eight interrelated components 
necessary for effective enterprise risk management.
The Enterprise Risk Management—Integrated Framework  defines enterprise risk man -
agement as a process, effected by an entity’s board of directors, management, and 
other personnel, applied both in strategy-setting and across the entity, designed to 
identify potential events that may affect the entity, to manage risk, and to provide rea -
sonable assurance that the objectives of an entity will be achieved.
This appendix outlines the relationship between the Internal Control—Integrated Frame -
work and the Enterprise Risk Management—Integrated Framework .
A Broader Concept
Enterprise risk management is broader than internal control, elaborating on internal 
control and focusing more directly on risk. Internal control is an integral part of enter -
prise risk management, while enterprise risk management is part of the overall gover -
nance process. This relationship is depicted in the illustration below.
The publication Enterprise Risk Management—Integrated Framework  remains in place 
for entities and others looking broadly at enterprise risk management.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
173
606 
607 
608 
609 
610 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
Categories of Objectives
Both the Internal Control—Integrated Framework  and Enterprise Risk Management—
Integrated Framework cover all reports developed by an entity, disseminated both inter -
nally and externally. These include reports used internally by management and those 
issued to external parties, including regulatory filings and reports to other stakeholders.
The two publications handle categories of objectives differently. While both specify 
the three categories of objectives of operations, reporting, and compliance, Enterprise 
Risk Management—Integrated Framework  adds a fourth category: strategic objectives 
(illustrated in the diagram below). Strategic objectives operate at a higher level than 
the others. They flow from an entity’s mission or vision, and the operations, reporting, 
and compliance objectives should be aligned with them. Enterprise risk management is 
applied in setting strategies, as well as in working toward achievement of objectives in 
the other three categories.
An underlying premise of enterprise risk management is that every entity exists to 
provide value for its stakeholders. Strategic objectives reflect management’s choice of 
how the entity will seek to create value for its stakeholders. Related objectives (referring 
to operations, reporting, and compliance objectives in the Enterprise Risk Manage -
ment—Integrated Framework) flow from these strategic objectives. While enterprise risk 
management focuses on how an entity creates, preserves, and realizes value, internal 
control focuses primarily on the achievement of specified objectives. 
Enterprise risk management is often viewed as being more forward-looking, consider -
ing how much risk the organization is willing to accept, how risks are both created and 
mitigated from strategic choices, and how emerging risks may impact the organization. 
In contrast, internal control focuses on whether the organization is mitigating risks to 
the achievement of specified objectives. In this context, internal control is often more 
retrospective than prospective. 
Risk Appetite and Risk Tolerances
The Enterprise Risk Management Framework introduces the concepts of risk appetite 
and risk tolerance. 
 • Risk appetite is the broad-based amount of risk an entity is willing to accept 
in pursuit of its mission/vision. It serves as a guidepost in strategy-setting and 
selecting related objectives.
 • Risk tolerance is the acceptable level of variation relative to achievement 
of objectives. In setting risk tolerance levels, management considers the 
relative importance of the related objectives and aligns risk tolerance with 
risk appetite.
Operating within risk tolerance provides management greater assurance that the entity 
remains within its risk appetite, which in turn provides added comfort that the entity will 
achieve its objectives. The concept of risk tolerance is included in the Framework, as a 
pre-condition to internal control, but not as a part of internal control.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
174
611 
612 
613 
614 
615 
616 Post Public Exposure Version
Appendices
Portfolio View
Enterprise risk management requires considering composite risks from a portfolio 
perspective. This concept is not contemplated in the Internal Control—Integrated 
Framework, which focuses on achievement of objectives on an individual basis. Internal 
control does not require that the entity develop a portfolio view.
Components
With the enhanced focus on risk, the Enterprise Risk Management—Integrated Frame -
work expands the internal control framework’s risk assessment component, creating 
three components: event identification, risk assessment, and risk response.
The objective-setting component of the Enterprise Risk Management—Integrated 
Framework considers the process used by management and the board for setting 
operations, reporting, and compliance objectives. Setting risk appetite and risk toler -
ance are key tenets of enterprise risk management. In contrast, internal control views 
the setting of objectives and risk tolerance as preconditions to an effective system of 
internal control.
Summary of Similarities and Differences 
of Components 
Each of the five components of internal control are reviewed below in relation to the 
Enterprise Risk Management—Integrated Framework . In each case, a table is included 
setting out concepts that are:
 • Common to both internal control (IC) and enterprise risk management (ERM)
 • Included in internal control and expanded upon in enterprise risk management
 • Incremental to enterprise risk management and not part of internal control
The principles for each component contained in the Framework are used where pos -
sible to depict these similarities and differences.
Control Environment
Risk Assessment
Control Activities
Information & Communication
Monitoring Activities
Operations
Entity Level
Division
Operating Unit
Function
Reporting Compliance
Function
Internal Environment
Objective Setting
Risk Assessment
Event Identiﬁcation
Risk Response
Control Activities
Monitoring
Information & Communication
Strategic
Entity Level
Division
Business Unit
Operations Reporting Compliance
Expanded into 
3 components
Internal Control—Integrated Framework Enterprise Risk Management—Integrated Framework
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
175
617 
618 
619 
620 
621 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
Control Environment
Common to ERM and IC Introduced in IC and Expanded in 
ERM
Incremental to ERM
 • Demonstrates commitment to 
integrity and ethical values
 • Establishes structures, author -
ity, and responsibility 
 • Demonstrates commitment to 
competence
 • Enforces accountability 
 • Exercises oversight 
responsibility
 • Establishes risk management 
philosophy 
 • Establishes risk culture
 • Establishes risk appetite
In discussing the Control Environment component, the Enterprise Risk Management—
Integrated Framework discusses (in the chapter titled Internal Environment) an entity’s 
risk management philosophy, which is the set of shared beliefs and attitudes character -
izing how an entity considers risks, reflecting its values and influencing its culture and 
operating style. As described above, the Framework encompasses the concept of an 
entity’s risk appetite, which is supported by more specific risk tolerances. 
Because of the critical importance of the board of directors and its composition, 
Enterprise Risk Management—Integrated Framework  expands on the call for a critical 
mass of independent directors (normally at least two) stating that for enterprise risk 
management to be effective, the board must have at least a majority of independent 
outside directors. 
Risk Assessment 
Common to ERM and IC Introduced in IC and Expanded in 
ERM
Incremental to ERM
 • Assesses fraud risk
 • Identifies and analyzes signifi -
cant change
 • Identifies and analyzes  
risks/events
 • Distinguishes risk and 
opportunities
 • Develops portfolio view
Enterprise Risk Management—Integrated Framework  and Internal Control—Integrated 
Framework both acknowledge that risks occur at every level of the entity and result from 
a variety of internal and external factors. And both frameworks consider risk identifica -
tion in the context of the potential impact on the achievement of objectives. 
Enterprise Risk Management—Integrated Framework discusses the concept of poten -
tial events, defining an event as an incident or occurrence emanating from internal or 
external sources that affect strategy implementation or achievement of objectives. 
Potential events with positive impact represent opportunities, while those with nega -
tive impact represent risks. Potential events with an adverse impact represent risks. 
The Framework focuses on identifying risks and does not include the concept of 
identifying opportunities as the decision to pursue opportunities as part of the broader 
strategy-setting process. 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
176
622 
623 
624 
625 Post Public Exposure Version
Appendices
While both frameworks call for assessment of risk, Enterprise Risk Management—Inte -
grated Framework suggests viewing risk assessment through a sharper lens. Risks are 
considered as inherent and residual, preferably expressed in the same unit of measure 
established for the objectives to which the risks relate. Time horizons should be con -
sistent with an entity’s strategies, objectives and, where possible, observable data. 
Enterprise Risk Management—Integrated Framework  also calls attention to interrelated 
risks, describing how a single event may create multiple risks. 
As noted, enterprise risk management encompasses the need for an entity-level portfo -
lio view, with managers responsible for business unit, function, process, or other activi -
ties having a composite assessment of risk for individual units.
Like the Internal Control—Integrated Framework , the Enterprise Risk Management—
Integrated Framework identifies four categories of risk response: avoid, reduce, share, 
and accept. However, enterprise risk management requires additional consideration: 
potential responses from these categories with the intent of achieving a residual risk 
level aligned with the entity’s risk tolerances. Management also considers as part of 
enterprise risk management the aggregate effect of its risk responses across the entity 
and in relation to the entity’s risk appetite.
Control Activities
Common to ERM and IC Introduced in IC and Expanded in 
ERM
Incremental to ERM
 • Selects and develops control 
activities
 • Selects and develops general 
controls over technology
 • Deploys through policies and 
procedures
Both frameworks present control activities as helping ensure that management’s risk 
responses are carried out. The Internal Control—Integrated Framework  presents a more 
current view of technology and its impact on the running of an entity.
Information and Communication
Common to ERM and IC Introduced in IC and Expanded in 
ERM
Incremental to ERM
 • Communicates internally
 • Communicates externally 
 • Uses relevant information 
The Enterprise Risk Management—Integrated Framework  takes a broader view of infor-
mation and communication, highlighting data derived from past, present, and potential 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
177
626 
627 
628 
629 
630 Post Public Exposure Version
Framework | Control Environment • Risk Assessment • Control Activities • Information and Communication • Monitoring Activities
future events. Historical data allows the entity to track actual performance against 
targets, plans, and expectations, and provides insights into how the entity performed 
in the periods under varying conditions. Current data provides important additional 
information, and data on potential future events and underlying factors completes the 
analysis. The information infrastructure sources and captures data in a timeframe and 
at a depth of detail consistent with the entity’s need to identify events and assess and 
respond to risks and remain within its risk appetite. The  Internal Control—Integrated 
Framework focuses more narrowly on data quality and relevant information needed for 
internal control.
Monitoring Activities 
Common to ERM and IC Introduced in IC and Expanded in 
ERM
Incremental to ERM
 • Conducts ongoing and/or 
separate evaluations
 • Evaluates and communicates 
deficiencies 
Both frameworks present monitoring activities as helping to ensure that the compo -
nents of internal control and enterprise risk management continue to function and 
remain suitable over time. The Internal Control—Integrated Framework  presents a more 
current view of monitoring using baseline information and the monitoring of external 
service providers.
Internal Control — Integrated Framework  •  September 2012
178
631To submit comments on this Public Exposure Draft, please visit the www.ic.coso.org website. Responses are due by  
November 16, 2012.
Respondents will be asked to respond to a series of questions. Those questions may be found on-line at www.ic.coso.org and in 
a separate document provided at the time of download. Respondents may upload letters through this site. Please do not send 
responses by fax. 
Written comments on this exposure draft will become part of the public record and will be available on-line March 31, 2013.