  
Basel Committee 
on Banking Supervision 
  
 
 
 
Principles for the Sound 
Management of 
Operational Risk  
 
 
 
 
 
June 2011 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Copies of publications are available from: 
Bank for International Settlements 
Communications 
CH-4002 Basel, Switzerland 
 
E-mail: publications@bis.org 
Fax: +41 61 280 9100 and +41 61 280 8100 
This publication is available on the BIS website (www.bis.org
). 
 
 
© Bank for International Settlements 2011. All rights reserved. Brief excerpts may be reproduced or 
translated provided the source is cited. 
 
 
ISBN 92-9131-857-4 (print) 
ISBN 92-9197-857-4 (online) 
 
  
Members of the SIG Operational Risk Subgroup 
Chairman: Mitsutoshi Adachi, Bank of Japan 
Australian Prudential Regulation Authority     Michael Booth 
National Bank of Belgium       Jos Meuleman 
Banco Central do Brasil, Brazil      Wagner Almeida 
Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions, Canada  James Dennison 
        Aina Liepins 
China Banking Regulatory Commission    Meng Luo 
Banque de France        Jean-Luc Quémard 
Deutsche Bundesbank, Germany      Marcus Haas 
Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (BaFin), Germany   Frank Corleis 
Reserve Bank of India       Rajinder Kumar 
Bank of Italy        Marco Moscadelli 
Bank of Japan       Madoka Miyamura 
Financial Services Agency, Japan      Tsuyoshi Nagafuji 
Surveillance Commission for the Financial Sector, Luxembourg Didier Bergamo 
Netherlands Bank       Claudia Zapp 
Polish Financial Supervision Authority     Grazyna Szwajkowska 
Central Bank of the Russian Federation    Irina Yakimova 
South African Reserve Bank     Jan van Zyl 
Bank of Spain        María Ángeles Nieto 
Finansinspektionen, Sweden      Agnieszka Arshamian 
Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority   Paul Harpes 
Financial Services Authority, United Kingdom    Andrew Sheen 
        K h i m  M u r p h y  
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, United States  Alfred Seivold 
Federal Reserve Board, United States     Adrienne Townes Haden 
        Kenneth G. Fulton 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, United States    Patrick de Fontnouvelle 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, United States    Ronald Stroz 
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, United States   Carolyn DuChene 
Maurice Harris 
Office of Thrift Supervision, United States     Eric Hirschhorn 
Financial Stability Institute      Amarendra Mohan 
Secretariat of the Basel Committee on Banking    Andrew Willis 
Supervision, Bank for International Settlements
 
 
Principles for the Sound Management of Operational Risk and the Role of Supervision 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sound Practices for the Management and Supervision of Operational Risk
  
Principles for the Sound Management of Operational Risk and the Role of Supervision 
 
Contents 
Preface .....................................................................................................................................1 
Role of Supervisors ..................................................................................................................2 
Principles for the management of operational risk....................................................................3 
Fundamental principles of operational risk management .........................................................7 
Governance ..............................................................................................................................8 
The Board of Directors ....................................................................................................8 
Senior Management ........................................................................................................9 
Risk Management Environment..............................................................................................11 
Identification and Assessment.......................................................................................11  
Monitoring and Reporting ..............................................................................................13 
Control and Mitigation ...................................................................................................14 
Business Resiliency and Continuity ..............................................................................17 
Role of Disclosure...................................................................................................................18 
Appendix: Reference material ................................................................................................19 
 
 
 
  
Principles for the Sound Management of Operational Risk 
and the Role of Supervision 
Preface 
1. In the Sound Practices for the Management and Supervision of Operational 
Risk (Sound Practices), published in February 2003, the Basel Committee on Banking 
Supervision (Committee) articulated a framework of principles for the industry and 
supervisors. Subsequently, in the 2006 International Convergence of Capital 
Measurement and Capital Standards: A Revised Framework - Comprehensive Version 
(commonly referred to as “Basel II”), t he Committee anticipated that industry sound 
practice would continue to evolve. 1 Since then, banks and supervisors have expanded 
their knowledge and experience in implementing operational risk management 
frameworks (Framework). Loss data collection exercises, quantitative impact studies, 
and range of practice reviews covering governance, data and modelling issues have 
also contributed to industry and supervisory knowledge and the emergence of sound 
industry practice. 
2. In response to these changes, the Committee has determined that the 2003 
Sound Practices paper should be updated to reflect the enhanced sound operational 
risk management practices now in use by the industry. This document – Principles for 
the Sound Management of Operational Risk and the Role of Supervision – incorporates 
the evolution of sound practice and details eleven principles of sound operational risk 
management covering (1) governance, (2) risk management environment and (3) the 
role of disclosure. By publishing an updated paper, the Committee enhances the 2003 
sound practices framework with specific pr inciples for the management of operational 
risk that are consistent with sound industry practice. These principles have been 
developed through the ongoing exchange of ideas between supervisors and industry 
since 2003. Principles for the Sound Management of Operational Risk and the Role of 
Supervision replaces the 2003 Sound Practices and becomes the document that is 
referenced in paragraph 651 of Basel II. 
3. A Framework for Internal Control Systems in Banking Organisations (Basel 
Committee, September 1998) underpins the Committee’s current work in the field of 
operational risk. The  Core Principles for Effective Banking Supervision  (Basel 
Committee, October 2006) and the Core Principles Methodology  (Committee, October 
2006), both for supervisors, and the principles identified by the Committee in the 
second pillar (supervisory review process) of Basel II are also important reference tools 
that banks should consider when designing operational risk policies, processes and 
risk management systems. 
4. Supervisors will continue to encourage banks “to move along the spectrum of 
available approaches as they develop more sophisticated operational risk 
measurement systems and practices".
2 Consequently, while this paper articulates 
principles from emerging sound industry practice, supervisors expect banks to 
                                                 
1  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, International Convergence of Capital Measurement and 
Capital Standards: A Revised Framework - Comprehensive Version, Section V (Operational Risk), 
paragraph 646, Basel, June 2006. 
2  BCBS (2006), paragraph 646. 
Sound Practices for the Management and Supervision of Operational Risk 1
 
  
continuously improve their approaches to  operational risk management. In addition, 
this paper addresses key elements of a bank’s Framework. These elements should not 
be viewed in isolation but should be integrated components of the overall framework for 
managing operational risk across the enterprise. 
5. The Committee believes that the principles outlined in this paper establish 
sound practices relevant to all banks. The Committee intends that when implementing 
these principles, a bank will take account of the nature, size, complexity and risk profile 
of its activities. 
Role of Supervisors 
6. Supervisors conduct, directly or indi rectly, regular independent evaluations of 
a bank’s policies, processes and systems related to operational risk as part of the 
assessment of the Framework. Supervisors ensure that there are appropriate 
mechanisms in place which allow them to remain apprised of developments at a bank. 
7. Supervisory evaluations of operational  risk include all the areas described in 
the principles for the management of operational risk. Supervisors also seek to ensure 
that, where banks are part of a financial group, there are processes and procedures in 
place to ensure that operational risk is managed in an appropriate and integrated 
manner across the group. In performing this assessment, cooperation and exchange of 
information with other supervisors, in accordance with established procedures, may be 
necessary.
3 Some supervisors may choose to use external auditors in these 
assessment processes.4 
8. Deficiencies identified during the supervisory review may be addressed 
through a range of actions. Supervisors use the tools most suited to the particular 
circumstances of the bank and its operating environment. In order that supervisors 
receive current information on operational risk, they may wish to establish reporting 
mechanisms directly with banks and external auditors (eg internal bank management 
reports on operational risk could be made routinely available to supervisors). 
9. Supervisors continue to take an active role in encouraging ongoing internal 
development efforts by monitoring and evaluating a bank’s recent improvements and 
plans for prospective developments. These efforts can then be compared with those of 
other banks to provide the bank with useful feedback on the status of its own work. 
Further, to the extent that there are identified reasons why certain development efforts 
have proven ineffective, such information could be provided in general terms to assist 
in the planning process.  
                                                
 
3  Refer to the Committee’s papers High-level principles for the cross-border implementation of the New 
Accord, August 2003, and Principles for home-host supervisory cooperation and allocation 
mechanisms in the context of Advanced Measurement Approaches (AMA), November 2007. 
4  For further discussion, see the Committee’s paper The relationship between banking supervisors and 
bank’s external auditors, January 2002. 
2 Sound Practices for the Management and Supervision of Operational Risk
 
  
Principles for the management of operational risk 
10. Operational risk 5 is inherent in all banking products, activities, processes and 
systems, and the effective management of operational risk has always been a 
fundamental element of a bank’s risk management programme. As a result, sound 
operational risk management is a reflection of the effectiveness of the board and senior 
management in administering its portfolio of products, activities, processes, and 
systems. The Committee, through the publication of this paper, desires to promote and 
enhance the effectiveness of operational  risk management throughout the banking 
system. 
11. Risk management generally encompasses the process of identifying risks to 
the bank, measuring exposures to those risks (where possible), ensuring that an 
effective capital planning and monitoring programme is in place, monitoring risk 
exposures and corresponding capital needs on an ongoing basis, taking steps to 
control or mitigate risk exposures and reporting to senior management and the board 
on the bank’s risk exposures and capital positions. Internal controls are typically 
embedded in a bank’s day-to-day business and are designed to ensure, to the extent 
possible, that bank activities are efficient and effective, information is reliable, timely 
and complete and the bank is compliant with applicable laws and regulation. In 
practice, the two notions are in fact closely related and the distinction between both is 
less important than achieving the objectives of each. 
12.  Sound internal governance forms the foundation of an effective operational 
risk management Framework. Although internal governance issues related to the 
management of operational risk are not unlike those encountered in the management 
of credit or market risk operational risk management challenges may differ from those 
in other risk areas. 
13. The Committee is seeing sound operational risk governance practices 
adopted in an increasing number of banks. Common industry practice for sound 
operational risk governance often relies on th ree lines of defence – (i) business line 
management, (ii) an independent corporate operational risk management function and 
(iii) an independent review.
6 Depending on the bank’s nature, size and complexity, and 
the risk profile of a bank’s activities, the degree of formality of how these three lines of 
defence are implemented will vary. In all cases, however, a bank’s operational risk 
                                                
 
5 Operational risk is defined as the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, 
people and systems or from external events. This def inition includes legal risk, but excludes strategic 
and reputational risk. 
6  As discussed in the Committee’s paper Operational Risk – Supervisory Guidelines for the Advanced 
Measurement Approaches, June 2011, independent review includes the following components:  
Verification of the Framework is done on a periodic basis  and is typically conducted by the bank's 
internal and/or external audit, but may involve other suitably qualified independent parties from external 
sources. Verification activities test the effectiveness of the overall Framework, consistent with policies 
approved by the board of directors, and also test va lidation processes to ensure they are independent 
and implemented in a manner consistent with established bank policies. 
Validation ensures that the quantification systems used by the bank is sufficiently robust and provides 
assurance of the integrity of inputs, assumptions, processes and output s. Specifically, the independent 
validation process should provide enhanced assurance that the risk measurement methodology results 
in an operational risk capital charge that credibly refl ects the operational risk profile of the bank. In 
addition to the quantitative aspects of internal validation, the validation of data inputs, methodology and 
outputs of operational risk models is important to the overall process.  
Sound Practices for the Management and Supervision of Operational Risk 3
 
  
governance function should be fully integrated into the bank’s overall risk management 
governance structure. 
14. In the industry practice, the first line of defence is business line management. 
This means that sound operational risk governance will recognise that business line 
management is responsible for identifying and managing the risks inherent in the 
products, activities, processes and systems for which it is accountable. 
15. A functionally independent corporate operational risk function (CORF)
7 is 
typically the second line of defence, generally complementing the business line’s 
operational risk management activities. The degree of independence of the CORF will 
differ among banks. For small banks, independence may be achieved through 
separation of duties and independent review of processes and functions. In larger 
banks, the CORF will have a reporting structure independent of the risk generating 
business lines and will be responsible for the design, maintenance and ongoing 
development of the operational risk framew ork within the bank. This function may 
include the operational risk measurement and reporting processes, risk committees 
and responsibility for board reporting. A key function of the CORF is to challenge the 
business lines’ inputs to, and outputs from, the bank’s risk management, risk 
measurement and reporting systems. The CO RF should have a sufficient number of 
personnel skilled in the management of operational risk to effectively address its many 
responsibilities. 
16. The third line of defence is an independent review and challenge of the bank’s 
operational risk management controls, pr ocesses and systems. Those performing 
these reviews must be competent and appropriately trained and not involved in the 
development, implementation and operation of the Framework. This review may be 
done by audit or by staff independent of the process or system under review, but may 
also involve suitably qualified external parties. 
17. If operational risk governance utilises the three lines of defence model, the 
structure and activities of the three lines often varies, depending on the bank’s portfolio 
of products, activities, processes and systems; the bank’s size; and its risk 
management approach. A strong risk culture and good communication among the 
three lines of defence are important characteristics of good operational risk 
governance. 
18. Internal audit coverage should be adequate to independently verify that the 
Framework has been implemented as intended and is functioning effectively.
8 Where 
audit activities are outsourced, senior m anagement should consider the effectiveness 
of the underlying arrangements and the suitability of relying on an outsourced audit 
function as the third line of defence. 
19. Internal audit coverage should include opining on the overall appropriateness 
and adequacy of the Framework and the asso ciated governance processes across the 
bank. Internal audit should not simply be testing for compliance with board approved 
policies and procedures, but should also be evaluating whether the Framework meets 
organisational needs and supervisory expectations. For example, while internal audit 
                                                
 
7  In many jurisdictions, the independent corporate operational risk function is known as the corporate 
operational risk management function. 
8  The Committee’s paper, Internal Audit in Banks and the Supervisor’s Relationship with Auditors,  
August 2001, describes the role of internal and external audit. 
4 Sound Practices for the Management and Supervision of Operational Risk
 
  
should not be setting specific risk appetite or tolerance, it should review the robustness 
of the process of how these limits are set and why and how they are adjusted in 
response to changing circumstances.  
20. Because operational risk management is evolving and the business 
environment is constantly changing, managem ent should ensure that the Framework’s 
policies, processes and systems remain sufficiently robust. Improvements in 
operational risk management will depend on the degree to which operational risk 
managers’ concerns are considered and the willingness of senior management to act 
promptly and appropriately on their warnings.  
Fundamental principles of operational risk management 
Principle 1: The board of directors 
should take the lead in establishing a strong risk 
management culture. The board of directors and senior management 9 should establish 
a corporate culture that is guided by strong risk management and that supports and 
provides appropriate standards and incentives for professional and responsible 
behaviour. In this regard, it is the responsibility of the board of directors to ensure that a 
strong operational risk management culture
10 exists throughout the whole organisation.  
Principle 2: Banks should develop, implement and maintain a Framework that is fully 
integrated into the bank’s overall risk management processes. The Framework for 
operational risk management chosen by an individual bank will depend on a range of 
factors, including its nature, size, complexity and risk profile.  
Governance
11 
The Board of Directors 
Principle 3: The board of directors 
should establish, approve and periodically review 
the Framework. The board of directors s hould oversee senior management to ensure 
that the policies, processes and systems are implemented effectively at all decision 
levels. 
Principle 4: The board of directors should approve and review a risk appetite and 
tolerance statement 12 for operational risk that articulates the nature, types, and levels 
of operational risk that the bank is willing to assume. 
                                                 
9  This paper refers to a management structure composed of a board of directors and senior 
management. The Committee is aware that there are significant differences in legislative and 
regulatory frameworks across countries as regards the functions of the board of directors and senior 
management. In some countries, the board has the main, if not exclusive, function of supervising the 
executive body (senior management, general management ) so as to ensure that the latter fulfils its 
tasks. For this reason, in some cases, it is know n as a supervisory board. This means that the board 
has no executive functions. In other countries, the board has a broader competence in that it lays down 
the general framework for the management of the ba nk. Owing to these differences, the terms “board 
of directors” and “senior management” are used in this paper not to identify lega l constructs but rather 
to label two decision-making functions within a bank. 
10  Internal operational risk culture is taken to mean the combined set of individual and corporate values, 
attitudes, competencies and behaviour that determine a firm’s commitment to and style of operational 
risk management. 
11 See also the Committee’s Principles for enhancing corporate governance , October 2010. 
Sound Practices for the Management and Supervision of Operational Risk 5
 
  
Senior Management 
Principle 5: Senior management should develop for approval by the board of directors 
a clear, effective and robust governance structure with well defined, transparent and 
consistent lines of responsibility. Senior  management is responsible for consistently 
implementing and maintaining throughout the organisation policies, processes and 
systems for managing operational ri sk in all of the bank’s material products, activities, 
processes and systems consistent with the risk appetite and tolerance.  
Risk Management Environment 
Identification and Assessment 
Principle 6: Senior man
agement should ensure the identification and assessment of the 
operational risk inherent in all material products, activities, processes and systems to 
make sure the inherent risks and incentives are well understood. 
Principle 7: Senior management should ensure that there is an approval process for all 
new products, activities, processes and systems that fully assesses operational risk.  
Monitoring and Reporting 
Principle 8:  Senior ma
nagement should implement a process to regularly monitor 
operational risk profiles and material expos ures to losses. Appropriate reporting 
mechanisms should be in place at the board, senior management, and business line 
levels that support proactive management of operational risk.  
Control and Mitigation 
Principle 9 :
 Banks should have a strong control environment that utilises policies, 
processes and systems; appropriate internal controls; and appropriate risk mitigation 
and/or transfer strategies.  
Business Resiliency and Continuity  
Principle 10 : Banks should have bu
siness resiliency and continuity plans in place to 
ensure an ability to operate on an ongoing basis and limit losses in the event of severe 
business disruption.  
Role of Disclosure 
Principle 11 : A bank’s public disclosures sh
ould allow stakeholders to assess its 
approach to operational risk management.  
                                                                                                                                            
12  ”Risk appetite” is a high level determination of how much risk a firm is willing to accept taking into 
account the risk/return attributes; it is often taken as a forward looking view of risk acceptance. ”Risk 
tolerance” is a more specific dete rmination of the level of variation a bank is willing to accept around 
business objectives that is often considered to be th e amount of risk a bank is prepared to accept. In 
this document the terms are used synonymously. 
6 Sound Practices for the Management and Supervision of Operational Risk
 
  
Fundamental principles of operational risk management  
Principle 1: The board of directors should take the lead in establishing a strong 
risk management culture. The board of directors and senior management should 
establish a corporate culture that is guided by strong risk management and that 
supports and provides appropriate standards and incentives for professional 
and responsible behaviour. In this regard, it is the responsibility of the board of 
directors to ensure that a strong operational risk management culture exists 
throughout the whole organisation.  
21. Banks with a strong culture of risk management and ethical business practices 
are less likely to experience potentially damaging operational risk events and are better 
placed to deal effectively with those events that do occur. The actions of the board and 
senior management, and policies, processes and systems provide the foundation for a 
sound risk management culture. 
22. The board should establish a code of conduct or an ethics policy that sets 
clear expectations for integrity and ethical values of the highest standard and identify 
acceptable business practices and prohibited conflicts. Clear expectations and 
accountabilities ensure that bank staff understand their roles and responsibilities for 
risk, as well as their authority to act. Strong and consistent senior management support 
for risk management and ethical behaviour convincingly reinforces codes of conduct 
and ethics, compensation strategies, and training programmes. Compensation policies 
should be aligned to the bank’s statement of risk appetite and tolerance, long-term 
strategic direction, financial goals and overall safety and soundness. They should also 
appropriately balance risk and reward.
13 
23. Senior management should ensure that an appropriate level of operational risk 
training is available at all levels throughout the organisation. Training that is provided 
should reflect the seniority, role and responsibilities of the individuals for whom it is 
intended. 
Principle 2: Banks should develop, implement and maintain a Framework that is 
fully integrated into the bank’s overall risk management processes. The 
Framework for operational risk management chosen by an individual bank will 
depend on a range of factors, including its nature, size, complexity and risk 
profile.  
24. The fundamental premise of sound risk management is that the board of 
directors and bank management understand the nature and complexity of the risks 
inherent in the portfolio of bank products, services and activities. This is particularly 
important for operational risk, given that operational risk is inherent in all business 
products, activities, processes and systems.  
25. A vital means of understanding the nature and complexity of operational risk is 
to have the components of the Framework fu lly integrated into the overall risk 
management processes of the bank. The Framework should be appropriately 
integrated into the risk management processes across all levels of the organisation 
                                                
 
13  See also: the Committee’s Report on the range of methodologies for the risk and performance 
alignment of remuneration, May 2011 ; the Financial Stability Forum’s Principles for sound 
compensation practices , April 2009; and the Financial Stability Board’s FSB principles for sound 
compensation practices – implementation standards, September 2009.  
Sound Practices for the Management and Supervision of Operational Risk 7
 
  
including those at the group and business line levels, as well as into new business 
initiatives’ products, activities, processes and systems. In addition, results of the bank’s 
operational risk assessment should be incorporated into the overall bank business 
strategy development processes. 
26. The Framework should be comprehensively and appropriately documented in 
board of directors approved policies and should include definitions of operational risk 
and operational loss. Banks that do not adequately describe and classify operational 
risk and loss exposure may significantly reduce the effectiveness of their Framework.  
27. Framework documentation should clearly: 
(a) identify the governance structures used to manage operational risk, including 
reporting lines and accountabilities;  
(b) describe the risk assessment tools and how they are used;  
(c) describe the bank’s accepted operational risk appetite and tolerance, as well 
as thresholds or limits for inherent and residual risk, and approved risk 
mitigation strategies and instruments;  
(d) describe the bank’s approach to establishing and monitoring thresholds or 
limits for inherent and residual risk exposure; 
(e) establish risk reporting and Management Information Systems (MIS);  
(f) provide for a common taxonomy of operational risk terms to ensure 
consistency of risk identification, exposure rating and risk management 
objectives
14; 
(g) provide for appropriate independent review and assessment of operational 
risk; and 
(h) require the policies to be reviewed whenever a material change in the 
operational risk profile of the bank occurs, and revised as appropriate. 
Governance 
The Board of Directors 
Principle 3: The board of directors should establish, approve and periodically 
review the Framework. The board of directors should oversee senior 
management to ensure that the policies, processes and systems are 
implemented effectively at all decision levels. 
28. The board of directors should:  
(a) establish a management culture, and supporting processes, to understand the 
nature and scope of the operational risk inherent in the bank’s strategies and 
activities, and develop comprehensiv e, dynamic oversight and control 
                                                
 
14  An inconsistent taxonomy of operational risk terms  may increase the likelihood of failing to identify and 
categorise risks, or allocate responsibility for the assessment, monitoring, control and mitigation of 
risks, 
8 Sound Practices for the Management and Supervision of Operational Risk
 
  
environments that are fully integrated into or coordinated with the overall 
framework for managing all risks across the enterprise; 
(b) provide senior management with clear guidance and direction regarding the 
principles underlying the Framework and approve the corresponding policies 
developed by senior management;  
(c) regularly review the Framework to ensure that the bank has identified and is 
managing the operational risk arising from external market changes and other 
environmental factors, as well as those operational risks associated with new 
products, activities, processes or systems, including changes in risk profiles 
and priorities (eg changing business volumes);  
(d) ensure that the bank’s Framework is subject to effective independent review 
by audit or other appropriately trained parties; and 
(e) ensure that as best practice evolve s management is availing themselves of 
these advances.
15 
29. Strong internal controls are a critical aspect of operational risk management, 
and the board of directors should establish clear lines of management responsibility 
and accountability for implementing a strong control environment. The control 
environment should provide appropriate independence/separation of duties between 
operational risk management functions, business lines and support functions.  
Principle 4: The board of directors should approve and review a risk appetite and 
tolerance statement for operational risk that articulates the nature, types and 
levels of operational risk that the bank is willing to assume. 
30. When approving and reviewing the risk appetite and tolerance statement, the 
board of directors should consider all relevant risks, the bank’s level of risk aversion, its 
current financial condition and the bank’s strategic direction. The risk appetite and 
tolerance statement should encapsulate the various operational risk appetites within a 
bank and ensure that they are consistent. The board of directors should approve 
appropriate thresholds or limits for specific operational risks, and an overall operational 
risk appetite and tolerance. 
31. The board of directors should regularly review the appropriateness of limits 
and the overall operational risk appetite and tolerance statement. This review should 
consider changes in the external environment, material increases in business or activity 
volumes, the quality of the control environment, the effectiveness of risk management 
or mitigation strategies, loss experience, and the frequency, volume or nature of limit 
breaches. The board should monitor management adherence to the risk appetite and 
tolerance statement and provide for timely detection and remediation of breaches. 
Senior Management 
Principle 5: Senior management should de velop for a
pproval by the board of 
directors a clear, effective and robust governance structure with well defined, 
transparent and consistent lines of responsibility. Senior management is 
responsible for consistently implementing and maintaining throughout the 
                                                 
15  See the Committee’s 2006 International Convergence of Capita l Measurement and Capital Standards: 
A Revised Framework - Comprehensive Version; paragraph 718(xci). 
Sound Practices for the Management and Supervision of Operational Risk 9
 
  
organisation policies, processes and systems for managing operational risk in 
all of the bank’s material products, activities, processes and systems consistent 
with the risk appetite and tolerance.  
32. Senior management is responsible for establishing and maintaining robust 
challenge mechanisms and effective issue-resolution processes. These should include 
systems to report, track and, when necessary, escalate issues to ensure resolution. 
Banks should be able to demonstrate that the three lines of defence approach is 
operating satisfactorily and to explain how the board and senior management ensure 
that this approach is implemented and operating in an appropriate and acceptable 
manner. 
33. Senior management should translate the operational risk management 
Framework established by the board of directors into specific policies and procedures 
that can be implemented and verified within the different business units. Senior 
management should clearly assign authority, responsibility and reporting relationships 
to encourage and maintain accountability, and to ensure that the necessary resources 
are available to manage operational risk in line within the bank’s risk appetite and 
tolerance statement. Moreover, senior management should ensure that the 
management oversight process is appropriate fo r the risks inherent in a business unit’s 
activity. 
34. Senior management should ensure that staff responsible for managing 
operational risk coordinate and communicate effectively with staff responsible for 
managing credit, market, and other risks, as well as with those in the bank who are 
responsible for the procurement of external  services such as insurance risk transfer 
and outsourcing arrangements. Failure to do so could result in significant gaps or 
overlaps in a bank’s overall risk management programme.  
35. The managers of the CORF should be of sufficient stature within the bank to 
perform their duties effectively, ideally ev idenced by title commensurate with other risk 
management functions such as credit, market and liquidity risk. 
36. Senior management should ensure that bank activities are conducted by staff 
with the necessary experience, technical capabilities and access to resources. Staff 
responsible for monitoring and enforcing compliance with the institution’s risk policy 
should have authority independent from the units they oversee. 
37. A bank’s governance structure should be commensurate with the nature, size, 
complexity and risk profile of its activities. When designing the operational risk 
governance structure, a bank should take the following into consideration: 
(a) Committee structure – Sound industry practice for larger and more complex 
organisations with a central group function and separate business units is to 
utilise a board-created enterprise level risk committee for overseeing all risks, 
to which a management level operational risk committee reports. Depending 
on the nature, size and complexity of the bank, the enterprise level risk 
committee may receive input from operational risk committees by country, 
business or functional area. Smaller and less complex organisations may 
utilise a flatter organisational structure that oversees operational risk directly 
within the board’s risk management committee; 
(b) Committee composition – Sound industry practice is for operational risk 
committees (or the risk committee in smaller banks) to include a combination 
of members with expertise in business activities and financial, as well as 
independent risk management. Committee membership can also include 
10 Sound Practices for the Management and Supervision of Operational Risk
 
  
independent non-executive board members, which is a requirement in some 
jurisdictions; and 
(c) Committee operation – Committee meetings should be held at appropriate 
frequencies with adequate time and resources to permit productive discussion 
and decision-making. Records of committee operations should be adequate to 
permit review and evaluation of committee effectiveness. 
Risk Management Environment 
Identification and Assessment 
Principle 6: Senior management should ensure the identification and 
assessment of the operational risk inherent in all material products, activities, 
processes and systems to make sure the inherent risks and incentives are well 
understood. 
38. Risk identification and assessment are fundamental characteristics of an 
effective operational risk management system . Effective risk identification considers 
both internal factors
16 and external factors.17 Sound risk assessment allows the bank to 
better understand its risk profile and allocate risk management resources and 
strategies most effectively. 
39. Examples of tools that may be used for identifying and assessing operational 
risk include: 
(a) Audit Findings: While audit findings primarily focus on control weaknesses and 
vulnerabilities, they can also provide insight into inherent risk due to internal or 
external factors. 
(b) Internal Loss Data Collection and Analysis: Internal operational loss data 
provides meaningful information for assessing a bank’s exposure to 
operational risk and the effectiveness of internal controls. Analysis of loss 
events can provide insight into the causes of large losses and information on 
whether control failures are isolated or systematic.
18 Banks may also find it 
useful to capture and monitor operational risk contributions to credit and 
market risk related losses in order to obtain a more complete view of their 
operational risk exposure; 
(c) External Data Collection and Analysis: External data elements consist of gross 
operational loss amounts, dates, recoveries, and relevant causal information 
for operational loss events occurring at organisations other than the bank. 
External loss data can be compared with internal loss data, or used to explore 
possible weaknesses in the control environment or consider previously 
unidentified risk exposures; 
                                                
 
16  For example, the bank’s struct ure, the nature of the bank’s activities, the quality of the bank’s human 
resources, organisational changes and employee turnover. 
17  For example, changes in the broader environment  and the industry and advances in technology. 
18  Mapping internal loss data, particularly in larger banks, to the Level 1 business lines and loss event 
types defined in Annexes 8 and 9 of the 2006 Basel II document can facilitate comparison with external 
loss data. 
Sound Practices for the Management and Supervision of Operational Risk 11
 
  
(d) Risk Assessments: In a risk assessment, often referred to as a Risk Self 
Assessment (RSA), a bank assesses the processes underlying its operations 
against a library of potential threats and vulnerabilities and considers their 
potential impact. A similar approach, Risk Control Self Assessments (RCSA), 
typically evaluates inherent risk (the risk before controls are considered), the 
effectiveness of the control environmen t, and residual risk (the risk exposure 
after controls are considered). Scorecards build on RCSAs by weighting 
residual risks to provide a means of translating the RCSA output into metrics 
that give a relative ranking of the control environment; 
(e) Business Process Mapping: Business process mappings identify the key steps 
in business processes, activities and organisational functions. They also 
identify the key risk points in the overall business process. Process maps can 
reveal individual risks, risk interdependencies, and areas of control or risk 
management weakness. They also can help prioritise subsequent 
management action; 
(f) Risk and Performance Indicators: Risk and performance indicators are risk 
metrics and/or statistics that provide insight into a bank’s risk exposure. Risk 
indicators, often referred to as Key Risk Indicators (KRIs), are used to monitor 
the main drivers of exposure associated with key risks. Performance 
indicators, often referred to as Key Performance Indicators (KPIs), provide 
insight into the status of operational processes, which may in turn provide 
insight into operational weaknesses, failures, and potential loss. Risk and 
performance indicators are often paired with escalation triggers to warn when 
risk levels approach or exceed thresholds or limits and prompt mitigation 
plans; 
(g) Scenario Analysis: Scenario analysis is a process of obtaining expert opinion 
of business line and risk managers to identify potential operational risk events 
and assess their potential outcome. Scenario analysis is an effective tool to 
consider potential sources of significant operational risk and the need for 
additional risk management controls or mitigation solutions. Given the 
subjectivity of the scenario proce ss, a robust governance framework is 
essential to ensure the integrity and consistency of the process; 
(h) Measurement: Larger banks may find it useful to quantify their exposure to 
operational risk by using the output of the risk assessment tools as inputs into 
a model that estimates operational risk exposure. The results of the model can 
be used in an economic capital process and can be allocated to business lines 
to link risk and return; and 
(i) Comparative Analysis: Comparative analys is consists of comparing the results 
of the various assessment tools to provide a more comprehensive view of the 
bank’s operational risk profile. For example, comparison of the frequency and 
severity of internal data with RCSAs can help the bank determine whether self 
assessment processes are functioning effectively. Scenario data can be 
compared to internal and external data to gain a better understanding of the 
severity of the bank’s exposure to potential risk events. 
40. The bank should ensure that the internal pricing and performance 
measurement mechanisms appropriately take into account operational risk. Where 
operational risk is not considered, risk-taking incentives might not be appropriately 
aligned with the risk appetite and tolerance. 
Principle 7: Senior management should ensure that there is an approval process 
for all new products, activities, processes and systems that fully assesses 
operational risk.  
12 Sound Practices for the Management and Supervision of Operational Risk
 
  
41. In general, a bank’s operational risk exposure is increased when a bank 
engages in new activities or develops new products; enters unfamiliar markets; 
implements new business processes or technology systems; and/or engages in 
businesses that are geographically distant from the head office. Moreover, the level of 
risk may escalate when new products activities , processes, or systems transition from 
an introductory level to a level that represents material sources of revenue or business-
critical operations. A bank should ensure that its risk management control infrastructure 
is appropriate at inception and that it keeps pace with the rate of growth of, or changes 
to, products activities, processes and systems.  
42. A bank should have policies and procedures that address the process for 
review and approval of new products, activities, processes and systems. The review 
and approval process should consider:  
(a) inherent risks in the new product, service, or activity;  
(b) changes to the bank’s operational risk profile and appetite and tolerance, 
including the risk of existing products or activities;  
(c) the necessary controls, risk management processes, and risk mitigation 
strategies; 
(d) the residual risk;  
(e) changes to relevant risk thresholds or limits; and  
(f) the procedures and metrics to measure, monitor, and manage the risk of the 
new product or activity.  
The approval process should also include ensuring that appropriate investment has 
been made for human resources and technology infrastructure before new products 
are introduced. The implementation of new products, activities, processes and systems 
should be monitored in order to identify any material differences to the expected 
operational risk profile, and to manage any unexpected risks.  
Monitoring and Reporting 
Principle 8: Senior management should implement a process to regularly
 
monitor operational risk profiles and material exposures to losses. Appropriate 
reporting mechanisms should be in place at the board, senior management, and 
business line levels that support proactive management of operational risk.  
43. Banks are encouraged to continuously improve the quality of operational risk 
reporting. A bank should ensure that its reports are comprehensive, accurate, 
consistent and actionable across business lines and products. Reports should be 
manageable in scope and volume; effective decision-making is impeded by both 
excessive amounts and paucity of data. 
44. Reporting should be timely and a bank should be able to produce reports in 
both normal and stressed market conditions. The frequency of reporting should reflect 
the risks involved and the pace and nature of changes in the operating environment. 
The results of monitoring activities should be included in regular management and 
board reports, as should assessments of t he Framework performed by the internal 
audit and/or risk management functions. Reports generated by (and/or for) supervisory 
authorities should also be reported interna lly to senior management and the board, 
where appropriate. 
Sound Practices for the Management and Supervision of Operational Risk 13
 
  
45. Operational risk reports may contain internal financial, operational, and 
compliance indicators, as well as external market or environmental information about 
events and conditions that are relevant to decision making. Operational risk reports 
should include: 
(a) breaches of the bank’s risk appetite and tolerance statement, as well as 
thresholds or limits;  
(b) details of recent significant internal operational risk events and losses; and  
(c) relevant external events and any potential impact on the bank and operational 
risk capital.  
46. Data capture and risk reporting processes should be analysed periodically 
with a view to continuously enhancing risk management performance as well as 
advancing risk management policies, procedures and practices.  
Control and Mitigation 
Principle 9: Banks should have a strong control environment that utilises 
policies, processes and s y
stems; appropriate internal controls; and appropriate 
risk mitigation and/or transfer strategies.  
47. Internal controls should be designed to provide reasonable assurance that a 
bank will have efficient and effective operations; safeguard its assets; produce reliable 
financial reports; and comply with applicable laws and regulations. A sound internal 
control programme consists of five components that are integral to the risk 
management process: control environment, risk assessment, control activities, 
information and communication, and monitoring activities.
19 
48. Control processes and procedures should include a system for ensuring 
compliance with policies. Examples of principle elements of a policy compliance 
assessment include: 
(a) top-level reviews of progress towards stated objectives; 
(b) verifying compliance with management controls; 
(c) review of the treatment and resolution of instances of non-compliance; 
(d) evaluation of the required approvals and authorisations to ensure 
accountability to an appropriate level of management; and 
(e) tracking reports for approved exceptions  to thresholds or limits, management 
overrides and other deviations from policy. 
49. An effective control environment also requires appropriate segregation of 
duties. Assignments that establish conflicting duties for individuals or a team without 
dual controls or other countermeasures may enable concealment of losses, errors or 
other inappropriate actions. Therefore, areas of potential conflicts of interest should be 
identified, minimised, and be subject to careful independent monitoring and review. 
                                                
 
19  The Committee’s paper Framework for Internal Control Systems in Banking Organisations , September 
1998, discusses internal controls in greater detail. 
14 Sound Practices for the Management and Supervision of Operational Risk
 
  
50. In addition to segregation of duties and dual control, banks should ensure that 
other traditional internal controls are in place as appropriate to address operational risk. 
Examples of these controls include: 
(a) clearly established authorities and/or processes for approval; 
(b) close monitoring of adherence to assigned risk thresholds or limits; 
(c) safeguards for access to, and use of, bank assets and records; 
(d) appropriate staffing level and training to maintain expertise; 
(e) ongoing processes to identify business lines or products where returns appear 
to be out of line with reasonable expectations;
20 
(f) regular verification and reconciliation of transactions and accounts; and 
(g) a vacation policy that provides for officers and employees being absent from 
their duties for a period of not less than two consecutive weeks. 
51. Effective use and sound implementation of technology can contribute to the 
control environment. For example, automated processes are less prone to error than 
manual processes. However, automated processes introduce risks that must be 
addressed through sound technology governance and infrastructure risk management 
programmes.  
52. The use of technology related products, activities, processes and delivery 
channels exposes a bank to strategic, operational, and reputational risks and the 
possibility of material financial loss. Consequently, a bank should have an integrated 
approach to identifying, measuring, monitoring and managing technology risks.
21 
Sound technology risk management uses th e same precepts as operational risk 
management and includes: 
(a) governance and oversight controls that ensure technology, including 
outsourcing arrangements, is aligned with and supportive of the bank’s 
business objectives;  
(b) policies and procedures that facilitate identification and assessment of risk;  
(c) establishment of a risk appetite and tolerance statement as well as 
performance expectations to assist in controlling and managing risk;  
(d) implementation of an effective control environment and the use of risk transfer 
strategies that mitigate risk; and  
(e) monitoring processes that test for compliance with policy thresholds or limits. 
53. Management should ensure the bank has a sound technology infrastructure
22 
that meets current and long-term busines s requirements by providing sufficient 
capacity for normal activity levels as well as peaks during periods of market stress; 
ensuring data and system integrity, security, and availability; and supporting integrated 
                                                 
20  For example, where a supposedly low risk, low margin  trading activity generates high returns that could 
call into question whether such returns have been achieved as a result of an internal control breach. 
21  Refer also to the Committee’s July 1989 paper Risks in Computer and Telecommunication System , 
and its May 2001 paper Risk Management Principles for Electronic Banking. 
22 Technology infrastructure refers to the underlying physical and logical design of information technology 
and communication systems, the individual har dware and software components, data, and the 
operating environments.  
Sound Practices for the Management and Supervision of Operational Risk 15
 
  
and comprehensive risk management. Mergers and acquisitions resulting in 
fragmented and disconnected infrastructure, cost-cutting measures or inadequate 
investment can undermine a bank’s ability to aggregate and analyse information across 
risk dimensions or the consolidated enterprise, manage and report risk on a business 
line or legal entity basis, or oversee and manage risk in periods of high growth. 
Management should make appropriate capital investment or otherwise provide for a 
robust infrastructure at all times, particularly before mergers are consummated, high 
growth strategies are initiated, or new products are introduced. 
54. Outsourcing
23 is the use of a third party – either an affiliate within a corporate 
group or an unaffiliated external entity – to perform activities on behalf of the bank. 
Outsourcing can involve transaction processing or business processes. While 
outsourcing can help manage costs, provide expertise, expand product offerings, and 
improve services, it also introduces risks that management should address. The board 
and senior management are responsible for understanding the operational risks 
associated with outsourcing arrangements and ensuring that effective risk 
management policies and practices are in place to manage the risk in outsourcing 
activities. Outsourcing policies and risk management activities should encompass:  
(a) procedures for determining whether and how activities can be outsourced;  
(b) processes for conducting due diligence in the selection of potential service 
providers;  
(c) sound structuring of the outsourcing arrangement, including ownership and 
confidentiality of data, as well as termination rights; 
(d) programmes for managing and monitoring the risks associated with the 
outsourcing arrangement, including the financial condition of the service 
provider;  
(e) establishment of an effective control environment at the bank and the service 
provider;  
(f) development of viable contingency plans; and 
(g) execution of comprehensive contracts and/or service level agreements with a 
clear allocation of responsibilities between the outsourcing provider and the 
bank. 
55. In those circumstances where internal controls do not adequately address risk 
and exiting the risk is not a reasonable option, management can complement controls 
by seeking to transfer the risk to another party such as through insurance. The board of 
directors should determine the maximum loss exposure the bank is willing and has the 
financial capacity to assume, and should perform an annual review of the bank's risk 
and insurance management programme. While the specific insurance or risk transfer 
needs of a bank should be determined on an individual basis, many jurisdictions have 
regulatory requirements that must be considered.
24 
56. Because risk transfer is an imperfect substitute for sound controls and risk 
management programmes, banks s hould view risk transfer tools as complementary to, 
rather than a replacement for, thorough internal operational risk control. Having 
                                                
 
23 Refer also to the Joint Forum’s February 2005 paper Outsourcing in Financial Services. 
24  See also the Committee’s paper, Recognising the risk-mitigating impact of insurance in operational risk 
modelling, October 2010.  
16 Sound Practices for the Management and Supervision of Operational Risk
 
  
mechanisms in place to quickly identify, re cognise and rectify distinct operational risk 
errors can greatly reduce exposures. Careful consideration also needs to be given to 
the extent to which risk mitigation tools such as insurance truly reduce risk, transfer the 
risk to another business sector or area, or create a new risk (eg counterparty risk).  
Business Resiliency and Continuity  
Principle 10: Banks should have business resiliency and continuity plans in 
place to ensure an ability to operate on an ongoing basis and limit losses in the 
event of severe business disruption.
25  
57. Banks are exposed to disruptive events, some of which may be severe and 
result in an inability to fulfil some or all of their business obligations. Incidents that 
damage or render inaccessible the bank’s facilities, telecommunication or information 
technology infrastructures, or a pandemic event that affects human resources, can 
result in significant financial losses to the bank, as well as broader disruptions to the 
financial system. To provide resiliency agai nst this risk, a bank should establish 
business continuity plans commensurate with the nature, size and complexity of their 
operations. Such plans should take into account different types of likely or plausible 
scenarios to which the bank may be vulnerable. 
58. Continuity management should incorporate business impact analysis, 
recovery strategies, testing, training and awareness programmes, and communication 
and crisis management programmes. A bank should identify critical business 
operations,
26 key internal and external dependencies, 27 and appropriate resilience 
levels. Plausible disruptive scenarios should be assessed for their financial, operational 
and reputational impact, and the resulting risk assessment should be the foundation for 
recovery priorities and objectives. Continuity plans should establish contingency 
strategies, recovery and resumption procedures, and communication plans for 
informing management, employees, regulatory authorities, customer, suppliers, and – 
where appropriate – civil authorities.  
59. A bank should periodically review its continuity plans to ensure contingency 
strategies remain consistent with current operations, risks and threats, resiliency 
requirements, and recovery priorities. Training and awareness programmes should be 
implemented to ensure that staff can effectively execute contingency plans. Plans 
should be tested periodically to ensure that recovery and resumption objectives and 
timeframes can be met. Where possible, a bank should participate in disaster recovery 
and business continuity testing with key service providers. Results of formal testing 
activity should be reported to management and the board. 
                                                
 
25  The Committee’s paper, High-level principles for business continuity,  August 2006, discusses sound 
continuity principles in greater detail. 
26  A bank’s business operations include the facilities,  people and processes for delivering products and 
services or performing core activities, as well as technology systems and data. 
27  External dependencies include utilities, vendors and third-party service providers. 
Sound Practices for the Management and Supervision of Operational Risk 17
 
  
Role of Disclosure 
Principle 11: A bank’s public disclosures should allow stakeholders to assess its 
approach to operational risk management.  
60. A bank’s public disclosure of relevant operational risk management 
information can lead to transparency and the development of better industry practice 
through market discipline. The amount and type of disclosure should be commensurate 
with the size, risk profile and complexity of a bank’s operations, and evolving industry 
practice. 
61. A bank should disclose its operational risk management framework in a 
manner that will allow stakeholders to determine whether the bank identifies, assesses, 
monitors and controls/mitigates operational risk effectively. 
62. A bank’s disclosures should be consistent with how senior management and 
the board of directors assess and manage the operational risk of the bank.
28 
63. A bank should have a formal disclosure policy approved by the board of 
directors that addresses the bank’s approach for determining what operational risk 
disclosures it will make and the internal controls over the disclosure process. In 
addition, banks should implement a process for assessing the appropriateness of their 
disclosures, including the verification and frequency of them.
29 
                                                 
28  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, International Convergence of Capital Measurement and 
Capital Standards: A Revised Framework - Comprehensive Version, Section V (Operational Risk), 
paragraph 646, Basel, June 2006, paragraph 810. 
29  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, International Convergence of Capital Measurement and 
Capital Standards: A Revised Framework - Comprehensive Version, Section V (Operational Risk), 
paragraph 646, Basel, June 2006, paragraph 821. 
18 Sound Practices for the Management and Supervision of Operational Risk
 
  
Sound Practices for the Management and Supervision of Operational Risk 19
 
 
Appendix 
Reference material 
A Framework for Internal Control Systems in Banking Organisations  (BCBS, 
September 1998) 
Internal audit in banks and the supervisor’s relationship with auditors  (BCBS, August 
2001) 
The relationship between banking supervisors and bank’s external auditors  (BCBS, 
January 2002) 
Core Principles for Effective Banking Supervision (BCBS, October 2006) 
Core Principles Methodology (BCBS, October 2006) 
High-Level Principles for Business Continuity (BCBS, August 2006) 
Outsourcing in financial services (Joint Forum, February 2005) 
Risk Management Principles for Electronic Banking (BCBS, May 2001) 
Risks in Computer and Telecommunication Systems (BCBS, July 1989) 
Principles for Enhancing Corporate Governance (BCBS, October 2010)  
Recognising the risk-mitigating impact of insurance in operational risk modelling  
(BCBS, October 2010) 
High-level principles for the cross-border implementation of the New Accord  (BCBS, 
August 2003) 
Principles for home-host supervisory cooperation and allocation mechanisms in the 
context of Advanced Measurement Approaches (AMA) (BCBS, November 2007) 