Website Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
REPORT ON CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE FOR  
SOUTH AFRICA 2016Website Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
The Institute of Directors in Southern Africa and the King Committee on Corporate Governance in South Africa 
acknowledge with appreciation those who support the King IV Report and corporate governance in South Africa 
through their
 sponsorship.
Platinum Sponsors
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
Website Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
The Institute of Directors in Southern Africa and the King Committee on Corporate Governance in South Africa 
acknowledge with appreciation those who support King IV and corporate governance in South Africa through 
their endorsements. Each
 endorsement indicates support for the principles as espoused by this Report.
Endorsements can be accessed at: http://www.iodsa.co.za/?page=KingIVEndorsers
The King IV Report is dedicated to all those from the King Committee and outside it, even beyond the borders o
f 
South Africa, who so generously gave of their time and knowledge to contribute to the development of its content.
Ansie Ramalho 
King IV Project Lead, Institute of Directors in Southern Africa
1 November 2016
Gold Sponsors
DF King Limited
Diligent Boardbooks Limited 
JSE Limited 
Link Market Services South Africa (Pty) Limited 
Nkonki Inc 
Oasis Water (Pty) Ltd 
SBV Services Proprietary Ltd 
4 Africa Exchange (Pty) Limited 
Transnet SOC Ltd 
The South African Institute of Chartered AccountantsWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
1
GLOSSARY OF TERMS
Page 8
2
FUNDAMENTAL CONCEPTS
Page 19
3
KING IV APPLICATION AND DISCLOSURE
Page 34
5
KING IV CODE ON  
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Page 42
Part 5.1: Leadership, ethics and corporate citizenship
Part 5.2: Strategy,performance and reporting
Part 5.3: Governing structures and delegation
Part 5.4: Governance functional areas
Part 5.5: Stakeholder relationships
6
SECTOR SUPPLEMENTS
Page 74
Part 6.1: Introduction to sector supplements 
Part 6.2: Supplement for municipalities 
Part 6.3: Supplement for non-profit organisations 
Part 6.4: Supplement for retirement funds 
Part 6.5: Supplement for small and medium enterprises
Part 6.6: Supplement for state-owned entities
7
CONTENT DEVELOPMENT PROCESS  
AND KING COMMITTEE
Page 118
4
KING IV ON A PAGE
Page 39
FOREWORD
INDEXWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
1
The Institute of Directors in Southern Africa NPC owns all copyright and titles in the “King IV Report on Corporate 
Governance for South Africa, 2016” (hereafter referred to as “King IV Report”) in its entirety, inclusive of all parts, 
sections, chapters and supplements that make up the King IV Report. 
Fair use of the King IV Report is permitted to the extent stated in terms of the Copyright Act No. 98 of 1978, as 
amended, for research, private study, personal and private use, criticism, review or reporting of current events. 
To
 the extent that the reproduction of the King IV Report extends beyond the permitted scope of “fair use”, prior 
written permission and acknowledgment of the Institute of Directors in Southern Africa NPC is required in terms of 
the King IV Intellectual Property Policy (as amended). 
The Institute of Directors in Southern Africa NPC reserves 
its right to charge a royalty fee for the use thereof.
The Institute of Directors in Southern Africa NPC has several registered trademarks related to the King IV Report 
and its rights in relation thereto must be respected and adhered to. Any use of the “™” must not create any 
misrepresentation of ownership or relationship with the Institute of Directors in Southern Africa NPC and must be 
used in accordance with the King IV Intellectual Property Policy (as amended).
Trademarks the Institute of Directors in Southern Africa NPC has in relation to King IV include, inter alia, the 
following: 
•
 King IV™
• King IV Report™ 
• King IV Code™
• King IV Report on Corporate Governance™
The Institute of Directors in Southern Africa NPC sees any infringement of its King IV Report copyright and 
trademark rights in a serious light. The Institute of Directors in Southern 
Africa NPC strictly reserves its rights, in 
all respects, in relation to the King IV Report and shall protect this within the full ambit of the law. 
COPYRIGHT AND  
TRADEMARKSWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
2
© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
FOREWORDWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
3
INTRODUCTION
The 21st Century has been characterised by fundamental changes in both business and society. These 
fundamental changes provided the context within which the King Committee set out to draft King IV, and have 
influenced both its content and approach. 
New global realities are testing the leadership of organisations on issues as diverse as inequality, globalised 
trade, social tensions, climate change, population growth, ecological overshoot, geopolitical tensions, radical 
transparency and rapid technological and scientific advancement. 
The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, which were agreed by all governments in 2015, the 
Africa 
2063 Agenda and the (South African) National Development Plan 2030 (NDP) have a common theme of value 
creation that is accomplished in a sustainable manner. 
This is a fundamental concept of King IV.
THE CHANGED WORLD
Financial instability is one driver of these changes. Financial crises arising out of the capital crisis in the United 
States of America and the Sovereign Fund crisis in the European Union have still not been resolved. Brexit 
created further uncertainty for financial systems.
Another change driver is climate change. Even those who are skeptical about the scientific evidence for climate 
change, or who question whether climate change is attributable to human agency or simply part of a longer-term 
cycle, have to acknowledge that the world has experienced extreme weather conditions that pose new risks in the 
last several years.
It is a reality that organisations and individuals are using natural assets faster than nature is regenerating them. 
This ecological overshoot will be exacerbated by continued population growth on the African and Asian continents. 
The global population is currently at 7.5 billion, and could reach 9.3 billion by 2045 according to the United 
Nations. Consequently, the pressure on natural assets will increase, as they are finite; continuing business as 
usual is no longer an option.  
Ubiquitous social media platforms are creating a world characterised by radical transparency. Corporations can no 
longer conceal their actions or secrets. Technological advances, including the emergence of the Internet of things, 
are generating huge amounts of data; more importantly, sophisticated analytics is converting that data into deep 
insight into the behaviour of humans and their organisations. 
Technology’s disruptions continue. At present, advances in robotics, artificial intelligence, 3D printing, 
nanotechnology and biotechnology are accelerating the transformation of production and supply chains – and 
forcing professions like law and accounting to reinvent themselves. 
Indeed, so profound are the disruptions to industries and business models that many believe we are in the midst 
of the Fourth Industrial Revolution.   
There are greater expectations from stakeholders than ever before. Activism by civil society and shareholders 
have rocked companies over the last few years. The Millennial Generation (Millennials), roughly those born since 
1980, is now the most numerous age cohort. Their concerns are beginning to set the global agenda. Millennials 
have shown that they are concerned about the global environmental crunch much more than the global financial 
crises. They are consequently attracted to companies who have integrated the six capitals into their business 
models. (The six capitals, as set out in the International Integrated Reporting Council’s (IIRC) Integrated 
Reporting <IR> Framework, are financial, manufactured, human, intellectual, natural and social and 
relationship
 capital.) 
FOREWORD Website Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
4
© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
In a similar vein, it is now accepted that organisations operate in the triple context of the economy, society and the 
environment. How they make their money does have an impact on these three elements and, in turn, they impact 
on organisations.
In the context of all the above, governing bodies have the challenge of steering their organisations to create value 
in a sustainable manner, making more but with less to meet the needs of a growing population and the reality of 
dwindling natural
 resources.
One corollary is that the duty of care has become both more complex and more necessary. No governing body 
today can say it is not aware of the changed world in which it is directing an organisation. Consequently
, a 
business judgement call that does not take account of the impacts of an organisation’s business model on the 
triple context could lead to a decrease in the organisation’s value.
Milton Friedman’s epigram, “The social responsibility of business is to increase its profits”, must now be 
interpreted in the light of the view that an organisation is a part of society in its own right. It can no longer be seen 
as existing in its own narrow universe (or “society”) of internal stakeholders and the resources needed to create 
value – it also operates in, and forms part of, general society. In this view, the licensor of an organisation is not 
just those individuals and entities within its narrowly defined value chain, but society as a whole. 
THE THREE SHIFTS IN THE CORPORATE WORLD
Certain concepts form the foundation stones of King IV. They are: ethical leadership, the organisation in society, 
corporate citizenship, sustainable development, stakeholder inclusivity, integrated thinking and integrated 
reporting. These concepts are relevant to three connected paradigm shifts in the corporate world.
From financial capitalism to inclusive capitalism
There is now general acceptance that the employment, transformation and provision of financial capital represent 
only a fraction of an organisation’s activities. Instead, inclusive capitalism takes account of the employment, 
transformation and provision of all sources of capital – the six capitals – in order to reposition capitalism as the 
engine of shared prosperity. It gives parity to the sources of value creation.
Financial performance alone can no longer serve as proxy for holistic value creation. As stated by Jonathan 
Labrey from the
 IIRC: “Long-term financial performance depends on the efficient and productive management of 
resources not currently measured by traditional accounting methodologies – human, intellectual, social and 
relationship, and natural capitals. The
 financial capital market system is insufficient to guard against the multi-
faceted and interconnected risks of the future and hence an inclusive market system should be adopted.”1  
This new way of thinking, known as inclusive capitalism, has the potential to trigger profound change. One is  
that, instead of simply providing aid to developing countries, developed country companies that are operating in 
more developing countries should focus on adopting the model of inclusive capitalism in the developing country, 
and thereby create value in a sustainable manner. The more an organisation’s business model positively impacts 
on society and the environment, the more the quality of life in developing economies will improve. This 
improvement, in turn, will positively affect the prospects for those organisations. 
From short-term capital markets to long-term, sustainable capital markets
The shift from short-term to long-term thinking arises from the need to create value in a sustainable manner. 
In
 essence, sustainable capitalism refers to an economic system in which value is created in a sustainable 
manner. 
The period indicated by long term or longer term would depend on the strategic objectives of the 
organisation and the risks and opportunities presented by its external environment, including its material 
stakeholders.
1  Jonathan Labrey, Three shifts toward better decision-making (posted 26 May 2015, available at http://integratedreporting.org/news/three-shifts-towards-better- 
decision-making/)
FOREWORD  
CONTINUEDWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
5
Another element of this trend is the growing sense that the financial crisis of 2008, and others, were to a large 
degree caused by a narrow focus on short-term objectives with little or no consideration of the long-term effects 
on either the organisations concerned, or the economy as a whole. This opinion is prompting renewed focus on 
the unintended consequences of performance incentives, but also on ways to encourage investors and finance 
providers to extend their investment horizons. 
In short, then, performance in terms of all-inclusive value should be assessed over the longer term. The capital 
market system must reward long-term decision-making. 
From siloed reporting to integrated reporting
We live in an era of radical transparency, which is prompting a rethink on corporate reporting. This is evidenced 
by the European Union’s directive on environmental, social and governance (ESG) reporting, the United 
Kingdom’s strategic report, the context of reports filed with the United States Securities and Exchange 
Commission, the Operating Financial Review in Australia and the listing requirements of several stock exchanges, 
including the Johannesburg Bourse. 
The traditional financial reporting system was a revolutionary development when it was instituted. It has since 
had
 to respond to market regulators, standards boards, ever more complex legislation and the regulation of 
accounting and corporate reporting. It is accepted that, while fully compliant and duly audited financial statements 
are critical, they are insufficient to discharge the duty of accountability. Similarly, a sustainability report is critical 
but insufficient. 
The reality is that the resources or capitals used by organisations constantly interconnect and 
interrelate. The organisation’s reporting should reflect this interconnectedness, and indicate how its activities 
affect, and are affected by, the six capitals it uses and the triple context in which it operates.  
The move from siloed reporting to integrated reporting is consistent with the concept of an inclusive, sustainable 
capital market system. It has been given impetus by acceptance of the triple context in which organisations 
operate and the evolution of integrated thinking. The International Federation of Accountants has promoted 
integrated reporting to the G20 countries.
King IV takes cognisance of all three these shifts.
In response to these, leading organisations have begun to change the way they operate, stakeholder 
management, technology and strategy being three such areas:
Stakeholder management: In order to know and understand the legitimate and reasonable needs, interests 
and
 expectations of an organisation’s major stakeholders, management needs an ongoing relationship with those 
stakeholders. Some organisations have appointed a corporate stakeholder relationship officer whose sole task is 
to communicate with stakeholders and inform management of their legitimate and reasonable needs, interests 
and expectations. 
This officer will also inform stakeholders what the organisation expects of them.
Understanding stakeholders’ expectations will greatly assist the executive to develop better strategy. Stakeholder 
relationships should be a recurring item on the governing body’s agenda so that the board can be kept apprised of 
the current state of the relationships between the organisation and its stakeholders.Website Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
6
© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
Technology governance and security: Technology governance and security have become critical issues. 
Technology is no longer simply an enabler; the systems created by an organisation provide the platform on 
which
 it does business, and technology is now both the source of many of an organisation’s future opportunities 
and of potential disruption – an excellent example of how risk and opportunity are increasingly two sides of the 
same coin.  
T
echnology is now part of the corporate DNA. Thus, the security of information systems has become critical. 
Technology governance and security should become another recurring item on the governing body’s agenda.
Strategy: As the world moves from siloed to integrated thinking, people are increasingly realising that 
organisations need to broaden the way they consider strategy. It is now apparent that strategy does not just 
involve a consideration of the inputs into the business models and the resulting outputs; the outcomes of the 
organisation’s products or services must also be taken into account. In particular, organisations need to assess 
what impact they are having on critical aspects of society and the environment. Consequently, every meeting of 
the governing body should have an agenda item for the consideration of the full sequence from inputs to 
outcomes. This will enable the governing body to discuss what the outcomes of its products are, and if they are 
causing a positive or negative impact on value creation. It will be appreciated that an outcome which is contrary 
to
 that which society expects is inconsistent with good corporate citizenship, and will result in the diminution of 
an organisation’s reputation, the trust in which it is held and the confidence society as a whole feels in it. Such a 
situation could well threaten the organisation’
s operational legitimacy. The end result would be a destruction in the 
value of the organisation. 
UNIVERSAL APPLICABILITY 
King I, II and III had as their foundation ethical and effective leadership. King IV is no different. Clearly, good 
leadership, which is
 underpinned by the principles of good governance, is equally valuable in all types of 
organisations, not just those in the private sector. Similarly
, the principles of good governance are equally 
applicable, and equally essential, in both public and private entities. 
This link is implicit in King I, II and III; King IV seeks to make it explicit. Specifically, the King Committee was 
requested by many entities outside the private sector to draft King IV in such a way as to make it more easily 
applicable to all organisations: public and private, large and small, for-profit and not-for-profit.
King IV has been drafted with this in mind. Thus, for example, it talks of organisations and governing bodies, 
rather than simply companies and boards of directors. Another innovation aimed at making it easier for all 
organisations to use the King IV Report as a guide for good governance is the inclusion of sector supplements. 
THE GLOSSARY
To obtain maximum benefit from this Report, the Code and the supplements, the user should read Part 1: 
Glossary of Terms following this foreword so that the meanings given to technical terms are consistently 
understood.
FOREWORD  
CONTINUEDWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
7
FROM “APPLY OR EXPLAIN” TO “APPLY AND EXPLAIN”
King IV has moved from “apply or explain” to “apply and explain”, but has reduced the 75 principles in King III to 
17 basic principles in King IV, one of which applies to institutional investors only. 16 of these principles can be 
applied by any organisation, and all are required to substantiate a claim that good governance is being practised. 
The required explanation allows stakeholders to make an informed decision as to whether or not the organisation 
is achieving the four good governance outcomes required by King IV. Explanation also helps to encourage 
organisations to see corporate governance not as an act of
 mindless compliance, but something that will yield 
results only if it is approached mindfully, with due consideration of the organisation’
s circumstances. 
This outcomes-based approach for a corporate governance code, and the “apply and explain” regime are the 
original intellectual thinking of the King Committee. 
APPRECIATION AND CONCLUSION
I record my thanks and appreciation to my committee and the task team, who jointly and severally devoted so 
much time and effort in the interests of corporate (in its broadest sense) South Africa, without remuneration or 
reimbursement of expenses. In
 particular, I thank 
Ansie Ramalho, who led the task team, convened meetings with 
commentators, collated the comments to the draft report, and convened the working sessions which comprised 
experts on each of the essential topics contained in this report. I must pay special tribute to her patience in 
dealing with all of my comments without complaint. My thanks and appreciation also are due to our editors, and to 
those who contributed to the layout of the report. 
The King Committee believes that this fourth iteration will reinforce global recognition of the King Committee’s 
reports on
 governance.
Mervyn E King SC
Chair of the King Committee 
1 November 2016Website Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
8
© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
PART 1
GLOSSARY OF TERMSWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
9
The following words 
carry the meaning as 
indicated for purposes 
of interpreting and  
applying King IV.
1  International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board, The International Framework for Assurance Engagements,  
(Effective for assurance reports issued on or after January 1, 2005) 
2 The Institute of Internal Auditors, International Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal 
Auditing, (2012), p 19
GLOSSARY  
OF TERMS
Accountability The obligation to answer for the execution of responsibilities. Accountability cannot 
be delegated, whereas responsibility can be delegated without abdicating 
accountability for that delegated responsibility.
Accounting authority As defined in terms of section 1 of the PFMA, it “means a body or person 
mentioned
 in section 49 of the PFMA”. 
AGM AGM is the abbreviation of annual general meeting as defined in the Companies 
Act
 or, for organisations other than companies, it means the meeting that serves a 
similar purpose as the 
AGM of a company.
Arrangement The way that people and things are organised for a particular purpose, activity or 
function, including frameworks, structures, systems and methods.
Assurance The diligent application of mind to evidence, resulting in a statement or declaration 
concerning an identified subject matter or subject matter information, and that is 
made for the purpose of enhancing confidence in that subject matter or subject 
matter information.
Assurance includes, but is not limited to, assurance engagements performed by 
independent, external assurance service providers (such as the external auditor) 
in
 accordance with the International Auditing and 
Assurance Standards Board’s 
International Engagement Standards. Such assurance “means an engagement 
in
 which a practitioner expresses a conclusion designed to enhance the degree 
of confidence of the intended users other than the responsible party about the 
outcome of the evaluation or measurement of a subject matter against criteria”1.
Assurance furthermore includes, but is not limited to, assurance provided in terms 
of the International Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing, 
namely, “an objective examination of evidence for the purpose of providing an 
independent assessment on governance, risk management and control processes 
for the organization”
2.
Assurance service providers and functions may include the following:
a. The organisation’s line functions that own and manage risks.
b. 
 The organisation’s specialist functions that facilitate and oversee risk 
management and compliance.
c.  Internal auditors, internal forensic fraud examiners and auditors, safety and 
process assessors, and statutory actuaries.
d. Independent external assurance service providers such as external auditors.
e. 
 Other external assurance providers such as sustainability and environmental 
auditors, external actuaries, and external forensic fraud examiners and auditors.
f. Regulatory inspectors.Website Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
10
© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
3  The International Integrated Reporting Council, The International <IR> Framework (13 December 2013), p 33, available at  
http://integratedreporting.org/resource/international-ir-framework/ 
4  The International Integrated Reporting Council; The International <IR> Framework, (13 December 2013), p 33, available at  
http://integratedreporting.org/resource/international-ir-framework/
5  The International Integrated Reporting Council, The International <IR> Framework (13 December 2013), p 11-12, available at  
http://integratedreporting.org/resource/international-ir-framework/
Audit firm tenure The length of the audit firm-client relationship. It should be calculated as the number 
of uninterrupted financial years that an audit firm has acted as external auditor of 
an
 organisation, up to and including the organisation’s last audited financial year
.
Beneficiary In the context of a retirement fund “means a nominee of a member or a dependant 
who is entitled to a benefit, as provided for in the rules of the relevant fund”, as 
defined in section 1 of the Pension Funds Act.
Board If it is used in the context of a company, “means the board of directors of a 
company”, as defined in section 1 of the Companies Act.
If it is used in the context of a retirement fund, “means a board of a fund as 
contemplated in terms of Section 7A of this Act”, as defined in section 1 of the 
Pension Funds Act.
Boards form a subset of the wider term “governing bodies”.
Business model “An organization’s system of transforming inputs through its business activities into 
outputs and outcomes that aims to fulfil the organization’s strategic purposes and 
create value over the short, medium and long term.”
3 
CAE Chief audit executive.
Capitals or six capitals “The capitals are stocks of value on which all organizations depend for their 
success as inputs to their business model, and which are increased, decreased 
or
 transformed through the organization’s business activities and outputs.”4 
In accordance with the six capitals model, these capitals consist of financial, 
manufactured, intellectual, human, social and relationship, and natural capital. 
Each
 of these capitals are described in the International <IR> Reporting 
Framework5.
CEO Chief executive officer or the highest ranking employee in an organisation 
regardless of naming convention.
CFO Chief finance officer.
Character Character describes the attributes that make up and distinguish an individual or 
a
 group. It is a way of being rather than a way of doing.
Code Part 5 of the King IV Report on Corporate Governance for South Africa, 2016.
Combined assurance 
model
A
 combined assurance model incorporates and optimises all assurance services 
and functions so that, taken as a whole, these enable an effective control 
environment; support the integrity of information used for internal decision-making 
by management, the governing body and its committees; and support the integrity 
of the organisation’s external reports.
Companies Act Companies Act, No 71 of 2008, as amended.
GLOSSARY OF TERMS  
CONTINUEDWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
11
Company A juristic person incorporated in terms of the Companies Act.
Competence Possessing the skills and attributes, and exhibiting the conduct that are used to 
define and measure suitability for a certain role or function.
Conflict of interest A conflict of interest, used in relation to members of the governing body and its 
committees, occurs when there is a direct or indirect conflict, in fact or in 
appearance, between the interests of such member and that of the organisation. 
It
 applies to financial, economic and other interests in any opportunity from which 
the organisation may benefit, as well as use of the property of the organisation, 
including information. It also applies to the member’
s related parties holding 
such interests. (See also “related party” and “independence”.)
Constitution Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, 1996.
Corporate citizenship
Corporate citizenship is the recognition that the organisation is an integral part of 
the broader society in which it operates, affording the organisation standing as a 
juristic person in that society with rights but also responsibilities and obligations. It is 
also the recognition that the broader society is the licensor of the organisation. 
Corporate governance For the purposes of King IV, is defined as the exercise of ethical and effective 
leadership by the governing body towards the achievement of the following 
governance outcomes:
•
 Ethical culture
• Good performance
• Effective control
• Legitimacy.
The use of “corporate” in the term “corporate governance” is used to differentiate it 
from other forms of governance, for example national or political governance. 
“Corporate” refers to organisations that are incorporated to form legal entities 
separate from their founders and therefore applies to all forms of incorporation 
whether as company
, voluntary association, retirement fund, trust, legislated entity 
or others.
Council “‘Municipal council’ or ‘council’ means the council of a municipality as referred to in 
section 18 of the Municipal Structures Act”, as defined in section 1 of the MFMA. 
Creation of value The positive consequences of the organisation’s business activities and outputs on 
the triple context in which the organisation operates, and the capitals it uses and 
affects.
CRISA Code for Responsible Investing in South Africa, 2011.
Culture In an organisational context, “the way in which members of an organisation relate to 
each other, their work and the outside world in comparison to other organisations”
6. 
It is generally described as “the way we do things around here, even when no one 
is watching”.
6  The Hofstede Centre, itim International, The Hofstede Multi-Focus Model on Organisational Culture (2016), available at  
https://geert-hofstede.com/organisational-culture.htmlWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
12
© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
Director “Means a member of the board of a company, as contemplated in section 66, or an 
alternate director of a company and includes any person occupying the position of a 
director or alternate director, by whatever name designated”, as defined in section 1 
of the Companies Act.
Diversity Diversity should be understood as the varied perspectives and approaches offered 
by members of different identity groups. For the purposes of King IV, it includes 
diversity in terms of fields of knowledge, skills and experience as well as age, 
culture, race and gender.
Effective or effectively The adequate accomplishment of the desired objective or a pursuit with the 
minimum expenditure of time, resources, waste and effort. 
Ensure Ensure, where it is used in relation to the responsibilities of the governing body, 
means to direct and oversee in good faith and with best reasonable effort towards 
achieving the desired result. 
ESG Environmental, social and governance.
Ethics Considering what is good and right for the self and the other, and can be expressed 
in terms of the golden rule, namely, to treat others as you would like to be treated 
yourself. In the context of organisations, ethics refers to ethical values applied to 
decision-making, conduct, and the relationship between the organisation, its 
stakeholders and the broader society.
Executive authority “In relation to a national public entity, means the Cabinet member who is 
accountable to Parliament for that public entity or in whose portfolio it falls” and “in 
relation to a provincial public entity, means the member of the provincial Executive 
Council who is accountable to the provincial legislature for that public entity or in 
whose portfolio it falls”, as defined in section 1(c) and (d) of the PFMA.  
Fairness Fairness refers to the equitable and reasonable treatment of the sources of value 
creation, including relationship capital as portrayed by the legitimate and reasonable 
needs, interests and expectations of material stakeholders of the organisation.
FSB Circular PF 130 Financial Services Board Circular PF 130.
Good performance Good performance is an organisation achieving its strategic objectives, and positive 
outcomes in terms of its effects on the capitals it uses and affects and on the triple 
context in which it operates. (See also “performance”.)
Governance outcomes The positive effects or benefits of good corporate governance for the organisation. 
These positive effects include: ethical culture, good performance, effective control, 
and legitimacy.
Governing body The governing body is the structure that has primary accountability for the 
governance and performance of the organisation. Depending on context, it includes, 
among others, the board of directors of a company, the board of a retirement fund, 
the accounting authority of a state-owned entity and a municipal council. 
“Members of the governing body” (also referred to as “those charged with 
governance duties”) are those who are duly appointed to serve on the governing 
body and/or its committees.
GLOSSARY OF TERMS  
CONTINUEDWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
13
GRI Global Reporting Initiative.
Group of companies “Means a holding company and all of its subsidiaries”, as defined in section 1 of the 
Companies Act.
Holding company “Means in relation to a subsidiary, a juristic person that controls that subsidiary as a 
result of any circumstances contemplated in section 2(2)(a) or 3(1)(a)”, as defined 
in terms of section 1 of the Companies Act.
Independence Independence generally means the exercise of objective, unfettered judgement. 
When used as the measure by which to judge the appearance of independence, or 
to categorise a non-executive member of the governing body or its committees as 
independent, it means the absence of an interest, position, association or 
relationship which, when judged from the perspective of a reasonable and informed 
third party, is likely to influence unduly or cause bias in decision-making. (See also 
“conflict of interest”.)
Information Includes all data, records and knowledge in electronic or any other format, which 
form part of the intellectual capital used, transformed or produced by the 
organisation.
Inputs “The capitals (resources and relationships) that the organization draws upon for its 
business activities.”
7 
Integrated report “A concise communication about how an organization’s strategy, governance, 
performance and prospects, in the context of its external environment, lead to the 
creation of value in the short, medium and long term.”
8 
Integrated reporting “A process founded on integrated thinking that results in a periodic integrated report 
by an organization about value creation over time. It includes related 
communications regarding aspects of value creation.”
9 
Integrated thinking “Integrated thinking is defined as the active consideration by an organization of the 
relationships between its various operating and functional units and the capitals that 
the organization uses or affects.”
10 
Institutional investor Any juristic person or institution referred to in the definition of financial institution in 
section 1 of the Financial Services Board Act, No 97 of 1990, to the extent that 
these juristic persons or institutions are the holders of beneficial interest in the 
securities of a company.
 It includes retirement funds and insurance companies as 
well as the custodians, nominees and service providers who act under mandate in 
respect of any investment decisions and investment activities exercised in relation 
to these securities.
11 
7  The International Integrated Reporting Council, The International <IR> Framework, (13 December 2013) available at  
http://integratedreporting.org/resource/international-ir-framework/ – http://integratedreporting.org/resource/international-ir-framework/
8 The International Integrated Reporting Council, The International <IR> Framework, (13 December 2013) available at  
http://integratedreporting.org/resource/international-ir-framework/ – http://integratedreporting.org/resource/international-ir-framework/
9  The International Integrated Reporting Council, The International <IR> Framework, (13 December 2013) available at  
http://integratedreporting.org/resource/international-ir-framework/ 
10 The International Integrated Reporting Council, The International <IR> Framework (13 December 2013)  available at  
http://integratedreporting.org/resource/international-ir-framework/ – http://integratedreporting.org/resource/international-ir-framework/
11 Adapted from the definition “institutional investor” used by the Committee for Responsible Investing South Africa, The Code for Responsible Investing in South Africa
  
(Institute of Directors in Southern Africa 2011), p 9, available at www.iodsa.co.zaWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
14
© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
GLOSSARY OF TERMS  
CONTINUED
Integrity In the context of governance and ethics, integrity is possessing the quality of being 
honest and having strong moral principles. It encompasses consistency between 
stated moral and ethical standards, and actual conduct.
Integrity, in relation to the annual financial statements and other external reports 
issued by the organisation, refers to the reliability and usefulness of these reports. 
(In this context, “reliability” means validity, accuracy and completeness, while 
“usefulness” means consistency, relevance and measurability.)
International <IR> 
Framework
International Integrated Reporting Framework.
King Committee King Committee on Corporate Governance in South Africa.
King III King III Report on Governance for South Africa, 2009.
King IV King IV Report on Corporate Governance for South Africa, 2016.  It refers to the 
complete document that includes all of its parts.
King IV Code Part 5 of the King IV Report.
King IV Report King IV Report on Corporate Governance for South Africa, 2016. It refers to the 
complete document that includes all of its parts.
Management Management includes senior management and executive management.
“Senior management” is the level of management reporting to executive 
management.
“Executive management” is, after the governing body, the highest decision-making 
authority in the organisation.
“Executive managers” are the members of the executive management team and 
include executive members of the governing body and prescribed officers as 
defined in the Companies Act or, in respect of organisations other than companies, 
those who exercise general executive control over, and management of, the whole 
or significant portions of the business and activities of the organisation.
Material or materiality As used generally in King IV, it is a “measure of the estimated effect that the 
presence or absence of an item of information [or identified subject matter] may 
have on the accuracy or validity of a statement [or decision]. Materiality is judged 
in
 terms of its inherent nature, impact (influence) value, use value, and the 
circumstances (context) in which it occurs”12.
Materiality in relation to the inclusion of information in an integrated report refers to 
matters that “could substantively affect the organization’s ability to create value over 
the short, medium and long term”
13.
May In King IV, “may” is used to describe a recommendation that is permissible but not 
considered essential. (See also “should” and “must”.) 
12  The Business Directory, available at http://www.businessdictionary .com/definition/materiality.html
13 The International Integrated Reporting Council, The International <IR> Framework (13 December 2013), p 5, available at  
http://integratedreporting.org/resource/international-ir-framework/ Website Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
15
Member When used in reference to a non-profit company, “means a person who holds 
membership in, and specified rights in respect of, that non-profit company, as 
contemplated in Schedule 1”, as defined in section 1 of the Companies Act. 
When used in reference to a retirement fund “means a person who belongs or 
belonged to a class of persons for whose benefit that fund has been established, 
but does not include any person who has received all the benefits which may be 
due to that person from the fund and whose membership has thereafter been 
terminated in accordance with the rules of the fund”, as defined in section 1 of the 
Pension Funds Act.
MFMA Municipal Finance Management Act, No 56 of 2003, as amended. 
Municipal entity or ME “Means a) a company, co-operative trust, fund or any other corporate entity 
established in terms of any applicable national or provincial legislation and which 
operates under the ownership control of one or more municipalities, and includes, 
in
 the case of a company under such ownership control, any subsidiary of that 
company; or b) a service utility”, as defined in section 1 of the Municipal 
Systems
 Act.
Municipal Structures Act Municipal Structures 
Act, No 117 of 1998, as amended.
Municipal Systems Act Municipal Systems Act, No 32 of 2000, as amended.
Must In King IV, “must” is used specifically to indicate a legal obligation. (See also “may” 
and “should”.)
NGO Non-governmental organisation.
NPO Non-profit organisation.
Non-Profit Organisations 
Act
Non-Profit Organisations Act, No 71, of 1997, as amended.
Organisation A company, retirement fund, non-profit organisation, state-owned entity, 
municipality, municipal entity, trust, voluntary association and any other juristic 
person regardless of its manner of incorporation.
Outcomes Outcomes in the context of the outcomes of the activities and outputs of an 
organisation means “the internal and external consequences (positive and negative) 
for the capitals as a result of an organization’s business activities and outputs”
14. 
It also refers to the internal and external consequences of the business activities 
and outputs on the triple context in which the organisation operates.
Outputs “The products, services, by-products and waste that are produced by an 
organization.”
15
14  Adapted from The International Integrated Reporting Council, The International <IR> Framework (13 December 2013), available at  
http://integratedreporting.org/resource/international-ir-framework/
15 Adapted from The International Integrated Reporting Council, The International <IR> Framework (13 December 2013), available at  
http://integratedreporting.org/resource/international-ir-framework/ and Reporting on Outcomes: 
An Information Paper, Integrated Reporting Committee South Africa,  
“Reporting on Outcomes: An Information Paper” 2015, available at www.integratedreportingsa.orgWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
16
© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
PBO Public Benefit Organisation.
Pension Funds Act Pension Funds Act, No 24 of 1956, as amended.
Performance “An organization’s achievements relative to its strategic objectives, and its 
outcomes in terms of its effects on the capitals.”16 It includes the organisation’s 
outcomes in terms of its effects on the triple context in which the organisation 
operates. Performance is therefore the result (positive and negative) of the value 
creation process. (See also “good performance”.)
PFMA Public Finance Management Act, No 1 of 1999, as amended.
Policy Policy gives effect to strategy and strategic direction by defining the frameworks, 
standards and plans that establish the scope or spheres within which judgement is 
exercised, decisions are made and actions are taken.
PRI United Nations supported Principles for Responsible Investment.
Principal officer The principal executive officer to be appointed by every registered fund in terms of 
section 8 of the Pension Funds Act.
Providers of financial 
capital
Equity and debt holders and others who provide financial capital including, lenders 
and other creditors.
Related party A related party is a person or entity as set out in section 2(1) of the Companies Act. 
It applies mutatis mutandis to organisations other than companies. (See also 
“conflict of interest”.)
Responsibility Taking ownership of a duty, obligation or liability. 
Responsible investment “An approach to investing that aims to incorporate environmental, social and 
governance factors into investment decision-making, to better manage risk and 
generate sustainable long-term returns.”
17
Risk Risk is about the uncertainty of events; including the likelihood of such events 
occurring and their effect, both positive and negative, on the achievement of the 
organisation’s objectives. Risk includes uncertain events with a potential positive 
effect on the organisation (i.e. opportunities) not being captured or not 
materialising.
18  
Sector supplements Part 6 of the King IV Report.
Sensitive information Information that is likely to compromise competitiveness, privilege or commercial 
advantage.
Shareholders “Subject to section 57(1) of the Act, means the holder of a share issued by a 
company and who is entered as such in the certificated or uncertificated securities 
register, as the case may be” as defined in section 1 of the Companies Act.
Depending on context, references to shareholders in King IV may also apply to the 
members of non-profit companies.
GLOSSARY OF TERMS  
CONTINUED
16  The International Integrated Reporting Council, The International <IR> Framework (13 December 2013), p 33 available at –  
http://integratedreporting.org/resource/international-ir-framework/
17 Principles for Responsible Investing available https://www.unpri.org/about/what-is-responsible-investment 
18 Broadly based of definition of risk by the International Organization for Standardization; ISO Guide 73:2009; available at  
https://www.iso.org/obp/ui/#iso:std:iso:guide:73:ed-1:v1:enWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
17
Should When used in King IV with reference to the principles, it indicates an aspiration or 
ideal state. When used with reference to the recommended practices in King IV, it 
indicates a recommended course of action that is particularly suitable, without 
mentioning or excluding other possibilities. 
“Should not” indicates that a certain course of action is not recommended but not 
prohibited either. (See also “may” and “must”.)
SME Small and medium enterprise.
Society Refers principally to the broader society or community as part of the triple context 
in
 which the organisation operates, and the social and relationship capital that the 
organisation uses and affects. Society includes the organisation’
s internal and 
external stakeholders, which in turn form part of the broader society as a whole.
SOE State-owned entity.
Stakeholder inclusivity An approach in which the governing body takes into account the legitimate and 
reasonable needs, interests and expectations of all material stakeholders in the 
execution of its duties in the best interests of the organisation over time. 
By
 following this approach, instead of prioritising the interests of the providers of 
financial capital, the governing body gives parity to all sources of value creation, 
including, among others, social and relationship capital as embodied by 
stakeholders. Consequently, this is an inclusive, stakeholder-centric approach 
which
 stands in contrast with a shareholder-centric approach.
Stakeholders “Those groups or individuals that can reasonably be expected to be significantly 
affected by an organization’
s business activities, outputs or outcomes, or whose 
actions can reasonably be expected to significantly affect the ability of the 
organization to create value over time.”
19  
“Internal stakeholders” are directly affiliated with the organisation and include its 
governing body, management, employees and shareholders.
“External stakeholders” could include trade unions, civil society organisations, 
government, customers and consumers.
Internal stakeholders are always material stakeholders, but external stakeholders 
may or may not be material.
Strategy The setting of the organisation’s short, medium and long-term direction towards 
realising its core purpose and values. 
Subsidiary As defined in terms of section 1 of the Companies Act “has the meaning determined 
accordance with section 3 of the Act”.
Sustainability Sustainability is the ultimate, long-term goal of sustainable development.  
(See also “sustainable development”.)
19  The International Integrated Reporting Council, The International <IR> Framework (13 December 2013), p 33 available at   
http://integratedreporting.org/resource/international-ir-framework/Website Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
18
© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
Sustainable development In general, “development that meets the needs of the present without compromising 
the ability of future generations to meet their needs”20.  
At the level of organisations’ participation in sustainable development, it means 
organisations intentionally interacting with, and responding to, the opportunities 
and
 challenges presented by the dynamic system of the triple context in which the 
organisation operates and the capitals that the organisation uses and affects, with 
the aim to achieve the creation of value over time. Sustainable development is not 
confined to individual matters, such as the economic viability of the organisation, 
the natural environment or corporate social responsibility
. Rather, it refers to an 
integrated approach that includes these and other considerations as represented 
by
 the triple context (see also “triple context”) and the capitals (see also “capitals”).
Technology T
echnology comprises the infrastructure, devices, systems and software that 
generate, use or carry information and enable transactions. 
Transparency The unambiguous and truthful exercise of accountability such that decision-making 
processes and business activities, outputs and outcomes (both positive and 
negative) are easily able to be discerned and compared with ethical standards.
Triple context The combined context of the economy, society and environment in which the 
organisation operates.
Value creation or value 
creation process
“The process that results in increases, decreases or transformations of the capitals 
caused by the organization’s business activities and outputs.”
21 The value creation 
process therefore has neutral, positive and negative outcomes. 
Values Convictions and beliefs about how the organisation and those who represent it 
should conduct themselves; how resources and stakeholders should be treated; 
what the core purpose and objectives of the organisation should be; and how work 
duties should be performed.
20 United Nations, “Report of the World Commission on Environment and Development: Our Common Future”, (Oxford, Great Britain: Oxford University Press, 1987), p 8. 
Also known as the Brundtland Report after Gro Harlem Brundtland, Chairman of the Commission and available at http://www.un-documents.net/our-common-future.pdf
21  The definition of “value creation” as per: The International Integrated Reporting Council, The International <IR> Framework (13 December 2013), p 33 available at 
http://integratedreporting.org/resource/international-ir-framework/
GLOSSARY OF TERMS  
CONTINUEDWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
19
PART 2
FUNDAMENTAL  
CONCEPTSWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
20
© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
INTRODUCTION
Since the publication of the first King report, South Africa has maintained a proud tradition of corporate 
governance. King IV is the fourth iteration of that report, and sets out the philosophy, principles, practices and 
outcomes which serve as the benchmark for corporate governance in South Africa. 
Part 2 contains the fundamental concepts and philosophy on which King IV is based, the distinguishing features 
of King IV and how the various developments in corporate governance, locally and internationally, since King III 
came into effect in 2009, have influenced the principles and practices in the Code. A firm grasp of the content in 
this part is necessary for effective application of King IV. 
DEFINITION OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Corporate governance, for the purposes of King IV, is defined as the exercise of ethical and effective leadership 
by the governing body towards the achievement of the following governance outcomes: 
•
 Ethical culture
• Good performance
• Effective control
• Legitimacy.
Ethical and effective leadership should complement and reinforce each other
.
Ethical leadership is exemplified by integrity, 
competence, responsibility, accountability, fairness 
and
 transparency. It involves the anticipation and 
prevention, or otherwise amelioration, of the negative 
consequences of the organisation’s activities and 
outputs on the economy
, society and the environment 
and the capitals that it uses and affects.
Effective leadership is results-driven. It is about 
achieving strategic objectives and positive outcomes. 
Effective leadership includes, but goes beyond, an 
internal focus on effective and efficient execution.
FUNDAMENTAL  
CONCEPTSWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
21
The governing body’s primary governance role and responsibilities are depicted below as part of the dynamic of 
the organisation’s business cycle1. This role and responsibilities include to steer the organisation and set its 
strategic direction, on the basis of which management will develop the strategy which is to be approved by the 
governing body. To
 give effect to the organisation’
s strategy, management formulates policy and operational 
plans, also to be approved by the governing body. Management then, implements and executes strategy in 
accordance with policy and plans which are overseen and supervised by the governing body. The governing body 
finally ensures that there is accountability for organisational performance through, among others, reporting and 
disclosure. The latter in turn forms the basis for reviewing strategic direction which starts the business cycle anew.
The governing body’s primary governance role and responsibilities, as described above, are replicated and 
incorporated as the structural basis for the recommended practices under each of the governance areas (for 
example ethics, risk, compliance, remuneration and stakeholder relationships) covered by the Code. Thus, the 
practices are organised in accordance with the following series of responsibilities: The governing body assumes 
responsibility for providing the direction for how each governance area should be approached, addressed and 
conducted. This is followed by formulation of policy in the form of frameworks, standards and plans by 
management to be approved by the governing body. The governing body oversees and monitors implementation 
and execution by management, and finally ensures that there is accountability for the performance in respect 
of
 each of these governance areas through reporting and disclosure.
1  Adapted from Bob Tricker , Corporate Governance Principles, Policies and Practices; Second edition, (Oxford University Press, 2012), p 174
Governing Body's Primary
Governance Role  
and Responsibilities
Approves policy and 
planning that give effect 
to the strategy and the set 
direction
.
Steers and sets strategic 
direction  
with regards to both:-
 i)  
 the organisation’s  
strategy;  and 
ii)  the way in which specific  
governance areas are to  
be approached, addressed  
and conducted.
Ensures accountability  
for organisational performance 
by means of, among others, 
reporting and disclosure.
Oversees and monitors  
implementation and execution 
by management.Website Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
22
© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
By organising the recommended practices in accordance with the governance role and responsibilities as 
explained above, King IV provides governing bodies with a model for the way in which any area that is subject to 
their governance should be approached.
OBJECTIVES OF KING IV
King IV’s objectives are to: 
• Promote corporate governance as integral to running an organisation and delivering governance outcomes 
such as an ethical culture, good performance, effective control and legitimacy.
• Broaden the acceptance of the King IV by making it accessible and fit for implementation across a variety of 
sectors and organisational types. 
•
 Reinforce corporate governance as a holistic and interrelated set of arrangements to be understood and 
implemented in an integrated manner.
•
 Encourage transparent and meaningful reporting to stakeholders.
• Present corporate governance as concerned with not only structure and process, but also with an ethical 
consciousness and
 conduct.
FUNDAMENTAL CONCEPTS  
CONTINUEDWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
23
THE UNDERPINNING PHILOSOPHIES OF KING IV
Although King IV does not represent a significant departure from the philosophical underpinnings of King III, 
concepts have developed and been refined. The concepts used in King IV are depicted below.
Integrated thinking
Takes account of  the connectivity 
and interdependencies between 
the range of factors that affect an 
organisation’s ability to create value 
over time.
Sustainable development
Sustainable development understood as development that meets the needs of the 
present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their needs is 
a primary ethical and economic imperative. It is a fitting response to the organisation 
being an integral part of society, its status as a corporate citizen and its stakeholders' 
needs, interests and expectations. 
The organisation as 
an integral part of 
society
Organisations operate in a 
societal context, which they 
affect and by which they are 
affected.
Stakeholder inclusivity 
There is an interdependent  
relationship between the organisation 
and its stakeholders, and the 
organisation’s ability to create value for 
itself depends on its ability to create 
value for others. An organisation 
becomes attuned to the opportunities and 
challenges posed by the triple context in 
which it operates by having regard to  
the needs, interests and expectations 
 
of material stakeholders.
Corporate citizenship
As the organisation is an integral 
part of society, it has corporate 
citizenship status. This status 
confers rights, obligations and 
responsibilities on the organisation 
towards society and the natural 
environment on which  
society depends.
Integrated reportingWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
24
© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
Integrated thinking
King IV advocates integrated thinking which takes account of the 
connectivity and interdependencies between the range of factors that 
affect an organisation’s ability to create value over time. Integrated 
thinking underpins all of the following: 
•
 seeing the organisation as an integral part of society and thus as a 
corporate citizen; 
• the stakeholder-inclusive approach; 
• sustainable development; and
• integrated reporting.
The organisation as an integral part 
of society
Organisations operate in a societal context which they affect and by 
which they are affected.
An organisation has a society specific to itself, which includes its 
internal and external stakeholders with a material stake in its 
activities. But the organisation is also a juristic person in the broader 
society in which it operates. Organisations are dependent on this 
broader society to, for instance, provide a conducive operating 
environment, a viable customer base and the skills that the 
organisation requires. In turn, organisations contribute to the broader 
society as creators of wealth; providers of goods, services and 
employment; contributors to the fiscus; and developers of 
human
 capital.
This idea of interdependency between organisations and society is 
supported by the African concept of 
Ubuntu or Botho, captured by the 
expressions uMuntu ngumuntu ngabantu and Motho ke motho ka 
batho – I am because you are; you are because we are. Ubuntu and 
Botho imply that there should be a common purpose to all human 
endeavours (including corporate endeavours) which is based on 
service to humanity
. 
As a logical consequence of this interdependency, one person 
benefits by serving another. This is also true for a juristic person, 
which benefits itself by serving its own society of internal and external 
stakeholders, as well as the broader society. 
In line with this ethos, organisations should also take responsibility for 
the environmental outcomes of their activities and outputs, as those 
affect society as
 a whole.
TRIPLE CONTEXT AND 
THE SIX CAPITALS
King IV refers to the ‘triple 
context’ or the combined 
context of the economy, society 
and environment in which the 
organisation operates. The 
reference in King IV to ‘context’ 
is in the singular as these three 
dimensions are intertwined and 
should be viewed as an 
integrated whole.
The triple context is portrayed in 
more granular fashion by the 
forms of capital that the 
organisation uses or affects. 
The
 ‘six-capitals’ 
model, 
identifies financial, 
manufactured, intellectual, 
human, social and relationship, 
and natural capitals. The
 model 
proposes these six forms of 
capital, but it is at the discretion 
of each organisation to identify 
the important physical and 
intangible resources that it uses 
or
 affects.
The triple context and the six 
capitals are concepts which are 
used in King IV as alternative 
lenses. Both
 are pathways to 
integrated thinking and 
sustainable development. 
In King IV, the choice to use 
either concept is dictated by its 
setting but generally
, triple 
context is used to denote the 
combined external environment 
in which the organisation 
operates, while six capitals is 
used when a more detailed or 
nuanced perspective is 
recommended.
FUNDAMENTAL CONCEPTS  
CONTINUEDWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
25
Corporate citizenship 
As the organisation is an integral part of society, it has corporate citizenship status. This status confers rights, 
obligations and responsibilities on the organisation towards society and the natural environment on which society 
depends. The notion of corporate citizenship recognises that the organisation is licensed to operate by its internal 
and external stakeholders, and by society in the broad sense.
The Companies Act also reflects the company having obligations to society. For example, it states in section 7 
that the purposes of the act include to “promote compliance with the Bill of Rights as provided for in the 
Constitution” and it “reaffirms the concept of the company as a means of achieving economic and social benefits”. 
Further support for the idea of corporate citizenship is offered by the obligation in the Companies Act for certain 
companies to establish a social and ethics committee. 
Stakeholder-inclusive approach
There is an interdependent relationship between the organisation and its stakeholders, and the organisation’s 
ability to create value for itself depends on its ability to create value for others.
2 An organisation becomes attuned 
to the opportunities and challenges posed by the triple context in which it operates by having regard to the needs, 
interests and expectations of material stakeholders. When using the six capitals model as an alternative lens, it is 
evident that each of the forms of capital has one or more stakeholders with an interest in it.
3 
King IV (like its predecessors) advocates a stakeholder-inclusive approach, in which the governing body takes 
account of the legitimate and reasonable needs, interests and expectations of all material stakeholders in the 
execution of its duties in the best interests of the organisation over time. By following this approach, instead of 
prioritising the interests of the providers of financial capital, the governing body gives parity to all sources of value 
creation, including among others, social and relationship capital as embodied by stakeholders. 
Stakeholder inclusivity involves the balancing of interests over time by way of prioritising and, in some instances, 
trading off
 interests. A
 decision on how to achieve this balance is made on a case-by-case basis as current 
circumstances and exigencies require, but should always be done in the best interests of the organisation over 
the longer term. Balancing the needs, interests and expectations of stakeholders is a dynamic and ongoing 
process. The quality of stakeholder relationships indicates how effectively an organisation is able to strike this 
balance in making its decisions.
Part 5.5 in the King IV Code contains the principles and practices that deal with relationships in accordance with 
the stakeholder-inclusive approach.
2  The International Integrated Reporting Council, The International <IR> Framework, (13 December 2013), p 10, available at  
http://integratedreporting.org/resource/international-ir-framework/
3  Robert G. Eccles and Tim 
Youmans, “Materiality in Corporate Governance: The Statement of Significant Audiences and Materiality”, Harvard Business School,  
Working Paper 16 – 023, September 3, 2015Website Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
26
© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
FUNDAMENTAL CONCEPTS  
CONTINUED
4  Esser I, Du Plessis JJ, “The Stakeholder Debate and Directors’ Fiduciary Duties”, SA Merc LJ 346-36, p360, 2007 (19) . See also Esser I, Delport P A “Shareholder 
protection philosophy in terms of the Companies Act 71 of 2008 THRHR 2016 (79), p 1–29 where the authors state: “It is our view that the inclusive approach should be 
followed in interpreting section 76(3)(b). As mentioned above, in terms of the inclusive approach, directors must consider the interests of various stakeholders on a 
case-by-case basis. In the end the decision must be in the best interests of the company, even if it is to the detriment of the shareholders.”
5  United Nations,
 “Report of the World Commission on Environment and Development: Our Common Future”, (Oxford, Great Britain: Oxford University Press, 1987), p 8. 
Also known as the Brundtland Report after Gro Harlem Brundtland, Chairman of the Commission and available at http://www.un-documents.net/our-common-future.pdf 
Shareholders, members and the stakeholder-inclusive approach
Adopting the stakeholder-inclusive approach means that the best interests of the company are not necessarily 
always equated to the best interests of shareholders. It also means that shareholders do not necessarily have 
a
 predetermined precedence over other stakeholders. Consequently, this is an inclusive, stakeholder-centric 
approach that stands in contrast to a shareholder-centric approach. Stakeholder inclusivity means that the 
board
 considers other stakeholders not merely as instruments to serve the interests of shareholders, but as 
having intrinsic value for decision-making in the best interests of the company over time. 
The position taken in King IV is that, “directors owe their duties to the company and the company alone as the 
company is a separate legal entity from the moment it is registered until it is deregistered… The company is 
represented by several interests and these include the interests of shareholders, employees, consumers, the 
community and the environment. 
Thus requiring directors to act in good faith in the interest of ‘the company’ 
cannot nowadays mean anything other than a blend of all these interests, but first and foremost they must act 
in the best interest of the company as separate legal entity… An interest that may be primary at one particular 
point in time in the company’
s existence may well become secondary at a later stage”4. 
The interests of shareholders and stakeholders are interdependent; thus, following a stakeholder-inclusive 
approach maximises this symbiosis to promote the company’s long-term sustainability.
The above position is put forward in respect of companies, but also applies to other organisations, including 
retirement funds and non-profit organisations. Those charged with governance duties in these organisations 
should similarly recognise the interdependent nature of the relationship between members and other 
stakeholders and its consequences for decision-making in the best interests of the organisation over time.
Sustainable development 
Sustainable development, understood as “development that meets the needs of the present without compromising 
the ability
 of future generations to meet their needs”5, is a primary ethical and economic imperative. It is a fitting 
response to the organisation being an integral part of society, its status as a corporate citizen and its stakeholders’ 
needs interests and expectations.
The survival and success of organisations are intertwined with, and related to, three interdependent sub-systems: 
the triple context of the economy, society and the natural environment. In the South African setting, addressing 
inequality in society through economic transformation is a good example of a challenge that affects all three these 
sub-systems in which organisations operate.
Organisations and their leadership need to intentionally interact with, and respond to, the challenges and 
opportunities presented by the dynamic system of the triple context in which it operates and the capitals that the 
organisation uses and affects, with the aim to achieve the creation of value over time. Such an integrated 
approach is a hallmark of sustainable development and it is for this reason that the organisation’s core purpose, 
its risks and opportunities, strategy, business model, performance and sustainability are presented in King IV as 
inseparable elements of the value creation process. Website Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
27
DISTINGUISHING FEATURES OF KING IV
The following are the features of King IV that distinguish it from its predecessors:
• King IV advocates an outcomes-based approach. Achieving the principles, and therefore ultimately good 
governance, optimises the organisation to realise the intended governance outcomes: ethical culture, good 
performance, effective control and legitimacy
. (Refer to Part 3: King IV Application and Disclosure for further 
explanation and to Part 4: King IV on a Page.)
• Clear differentiation is made between principles and practices. Principles are achieved by mindful consideration 
and application of the recommended practices. (Refer to Part 3: King IV Application and Disclosure for further 
explanation.)
•
 King IV has been designed and drafted to make it more accessible to users, and also to reinforce governance 
as a holistic and integrated set of arrangements. (Refer to Part 4: King IV on a Page as a demonstration of 
this
 point.)
• Broader forms of address are used in King IV, namely “organisations”, “governing body” and “those charged 
with governance duties”. 
•
 Supplements are provided to help organisations across a variety sectors and organisational types to interpret 
and implement King IV as is suited to their particular circumstances. (Refer to Part 6: Sector Supplements.)
•
 King IV provides guidance on how to apply the recommended practices proportionally in line with the 
organisation’s size and resources, and extent and complexity of the organisation’s activities. (Refer to Part 3: 
King IV 
Application and Disclosure for more guidance on proportionality.)
• To balance the less prescriptive approach adopted in King IV, there is greater emphasis on transparency with 
regards to how judgement was exercised when considering the practice recommendations contained in King IV
. 
To reinforce this qualitative application of its principles and practices, King IV proposes an ”apply and explain” 
regime, in contrast to “apply or explain” in King III. (Refer to Part 3: King IV Application and Disclosure for more 
detail and guidance on the application regime of King IV.)Website Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
28
© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
FUNDAMENTAL CONCEPTS  
CONTINUED
HIGHLIGHTS OF THE KING IV CODE
The following is a summary of how emerging issues and corporate governance developments since the issue of 
King III in 2009 are addressed in the principles and practices contained in the Code. It also highlights specific 
areas of focus and some of the differences between King III and King IV.
Integrated reporting
The notion of integrated reporting was introduced in King III, but the understanding of it has significantly evolved 
since then. Integrated reporting is an outcome of integrated thinking and is presented as such in King IV. Reporting, 
including integrated reporting, is dealt with in Part 5.2 of the Code, where it is positioned as the culmination of a 
series of leadership responsibilities executed by the governing body. The governing body steers and sets the 
direction of the organisation, approves policy and planning, oversees and monitors management and then, finally, 
provides for accountability on organisational performance through, among others, reporting and disclosure.
In order to clarify the standing of the integrated report in relation to other reports, King IV deals with it as one of the 
many reports that may be issued by the organisation, as is necessary, to comply with legal requirements, and/or to 
meet the particular information needs of material stakeholders. These other reports include the financial 
statements, the sustainability report, the social and ethics committee report, or other online or printed information 
or reports.
An integrated report could be a standalone report which connects the more detailed information in other reports 
and which addresses, at a high level and in a complete, concise way, the matters that could significantly affect 
the organisation’s ability to
 create value. It could also be a distinguishable, prominent and accessible part of 
another report which also includes the financial statements and other reports issued in compliance with legal 
requirements.
6  
When drafting King IV, reliance was placed on the International <IR> Framework as issued by the International 
Integrated Reporting Council
7. The Integrated Reporting Committee of South Africa8 has endorsed the 
International <IR> Framework as good practice on how to prepare an integrated report and the committee’s 
further guidance on integrated reporting should be followed.
Balanced composition of governing bodies and independence
Having members of the governing body who are independent in appearance is an essential element in most 
governance codes. King IV seeks to contextualise the relevance of independence correctly, namely that: 
•
 All members of the governing body, whether they are categorised as executive, non-executive or independent 
non-executive have, as a matter of law, a duty to act with independence of mind in the best interests of the 
organisation.
•
 Although important, independence in appearance is but one consideration in achieving balance in the 
composition of the governing
 body.
The overriding concern (as reflected by Principle 7 which deals with the composition of the governing body) is 
whether the governing body is knowledgeable, skilled, experienced, diverse and independent enough to 
discharge fully its governance role and responsibilities. 
The need for the governing body to set and disclose progress towards targets for race and gender diversity has 
specifically been included in the Code.
6  Integrated Reporting SA available at http://www.integratedreportingsa.org/Home/Theoctopusmodel.aspx
7  The International Integrated Reporting Council, The International <IR> Framework (13 December 2013), available at  
http://integratedreporting.org/resource/international-ir-framework/ 
8  Integrated Reporting SA available at www.integratedreportingsa.orgWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
29
Delegation to management
The King IV Code provides for the governing body to delegate the implementation and execution of approved 
strategy, through policy and operational plans, to management via the chief executive officer (CEO). Rather than 
dealing with the establishment of specific management positions for functional areas as was done in King III, 
the
 practices in the King IV Code contain recommendations for the governing body to oversee that key 
functional areas are headed by competent individuals and are adequately resourced.
Delegation to committees
King IV, like King III, deals with delegation by the governing body within its own structures. Principle 8 of King IV 
now clarifies the objectives for these delegation arrangements, which are to promote independent judgement; 
to
 assist with balance of power; and to assist with the effective discharge of its duties by the governing body
.
In accordance with the drafting convention adopted for King IV, the recommended practices do not prescribe 
which committees should be established by the governing body – the governing body should judge what is 
appropriate for the organisation. The
 practices furthermore recommend that the allocation of roles and 
responsibilities, and the composition of committees, should be considered holistically. 
The aim here is to 
promote effective collaboration among committees with minimal overlap and fragmentation of duties, as well as 
a balanced distribution of power.
Corporate governance services to the governing body
Rather than dealing with the office of the company secretary in isolation, the premise of the King IV Code is that 
the governing body should ensure that it has access to professional and independent guidance on corporate 
governance. For most companies, this will be provided by the company secretary. The Code recommends that 
even those companies and other organisations not obliged to appoint a company secretary should, as a matter 
of leading practice, consider appointing a company secretary or other professional to provide such services to 
the governing body.
Performance evaluations of the governing body 
King III recommended that an evaluation of the governing body, its committees and its individual members be 
conducted every
 year. 
To provide for sufficient time to appropriately respond to the results of such performance 
evaluations, the King IV Code recommends for a formal evaluation process to be conducted at least every 
two
 years. Every alternate year, the governing body should schedule an opportunity for consideration, reflection 
and discussion of its performance.
Social and ethics committees
Regulation 43 of the Companies Act was issued after King III and does not address the ethics role of the social 
and ethics committee beyond mentioning ethics in the name of the committee. King IV seeks to expand on this, 
and the role ascribed to the social and ethics committee is that of oversight and reporting on organisational 
ethics, responsible corporate citizenship, sustainable development and stakeholder relationships. 
This role includes organisational ethics and cover the statutory duties, but the intent is to encourage leading 
practice by having the social and ethics committee progress beyond mere compliance to contribute to the 
creation of value. Accordingly, King IV urges organisations that are not legally required to establish a social and 
ethics committee, nevertheless to consider creating a structure that would achieve the aims of such a 
committee. Website Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
30
© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
FUNDAMENTAL CONCEPTS  
CONTINUED
Social and ethics committees (continued)
King IV also recommends a higher standard for the composition of this committee than what is provided for 
in the Companies Act. The recommended practices thus include that a majority of the members should be 
 
non-executive members of the governing body so as to ensure that independent judgement is brought to bear.
Risk and opportunity
The definition for risk used in King IV consists of three parts, namely uncertainty of events, the likelihood of such 
events occurring and their effect, both positive and negative. 
King IV’s understanding of risk thus balances the traditional, negative view of risk with one that recognises the 
potential opportunities inherent in some risks. Thus, an opportunity may present itself as the potential upside of 
a risk that could adversely affect the achievement of organisational objectives.
However, it is also recognised in King IV that opportunities do not always originate from the current risks of the 
organisation. This is particularly true of the strategic opportunities that should be considered when setting the 
organisation’s strategic direction. Consideration of the risks associated with such strategic opportunities affect 
whether the opportunity will be captured by the organisation or not. 
Due to the rising complexity of risk and hence the need to strengthen oversight, the King IV Code recommends 
that the risk committee comprises a majority of non-executive members of the governing body. This 
recommendation goes beyond what was required in King III.
Technology and information
In King IV, cognisance had to be taken of the advances in technology that are revolutionising businesses and 
societies, and transforming products, services and business models. So profound are these effects that many 
believe they herald the dawn of a Fourth Industrial Revolution. 
These advances happen quickly and can cause significant disruption, opportunities and risks. Organisations 
should strengthen the processes that help them to anticipate change and to respond by capturing new 
opportunities and managing emerging risks. The practices under Principle 12 are designed to assist the 
governing body to do
 so.
Information, like technology, is a growing source of competitive advantage for the enhancement of the 
intellectual capital of an organisation.
In King IV
, it is recognised that information and technology overlap but are also distinct sources of value creation 
which pose individual risks and opportunities. It is to reinforce this distinction that this section in the King IV 
Code now refers to technology and information instead of information technology.
Compliance 
As in King III, the King IV Code recommends that those charged with governance should ensure that compliance 
is
 understood, not only as an obligation, but also as a source of rights and protection. A
 holistic view is needed on 
how applicable laws and non-binding rules, codes and standards relate to one another. This includes how 
corporate governance codes relate to applicable legislation. 
The Code further recommends that governing bodies should ensure continual monitoring of the regulatory 
environment, and that developments are responded to as necessary. Website Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
31
Remuneration
Many international regulators and institutional investors are paying additional attention to disclosure and voting 
on remuneration. King IV had to consider the appropriate means of dealing with these developments, taking into 
account that South Africa is a participant in the global investment market but with its own unique set of 
circumstances.
King IV aims to foster enhanced accountability on remuneration. One of the ways that it addresses this is by 
including more definitive disclosure requirements, among which, that remuneration should be disclosed in three 
parts, namely: a background statement; an overview of the remuneration policy; and an implementation report. 
It also recommends that shareholders of companies be provided the opportunity to pass separate non-binding 
advisory votes on the policy and the implementation report. The remuneration policy should record the 
measures
 that the board commits to in the event that either the remuneration policy or the implementation 
report, or both have been voted against by 25% or more of the voting rights exercised by shareholders. The 
Code recommends that such measures should include engagement and addressing objections and concerns.
King IV furthermore recommends the use of performance measures that support positive outcomes across the 
triple context in which the organisation operates, and/or all the capitals that the organisation uses or af
fects. 
This is a departure from linking remuneration to financial performance only. In respect of executive 
remuneration, it is also recommended that an account be provided of the performance measures and targets 
used as a basis for awarding of variable remuneration.
An important introduction in King IV is that the remuneration of executive management should be fair and 
responsible in the context of overall employee remuneration. It should be disclosed how this has been 
addressed. This acknowledges the need to address the gap between the remuneration of executives and those 
at the lower end of the pay scale.
Assurance and internal audit
King III introduced the combined assurance model, but this concept needed to evolve to become more useful 
and effective.
In King IV, the model assumes an understanding of assurance that goes beyond the technical definitions of 
assurance. A combined assurance model incorporates and optimises all assurance services and functions so 
that, taken as a whole, these enable an effective control environment; support the integrity of information used 
for internal decision-making by management, the governing body and its committees; and support the integrity  
of the organisation’s external reports. 
The King IV Code’s recommendations do not prescribe the design of the model, but allow for the governing 
body
 to exercise its judgement in this regard.
Internal audit, as one of the assurance service providers to the organisation, remains pivotal to corporate 
governance. Its role has further evolved in recent years. It has become a trusted advisor that adds value by 
contributing insight into the activities of the organisation and, as a further enhancement, foresight. This is the 
ideal positioning that is envisaged for internal audit in King
 IV.Website Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
32
© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
FUNDAMENTAL CONCEPTS  
CONTINUED
Auditor and audit requirements
Mandatory rotation of audit firms and mandatory tendering have been introduced in some jurisdictions in an 
attempt to reinforce auditor independence and audit quality. King IV leaves the consideration and decision on 
whether to implement either to the audit committee and governing body, subject to legal requirements. 
The
 Code, however, makes certain practice recommendations with regard to auditor independence, amongst 
them that the tenure of an audit firm needs to be disclosed. 
Following the UK Corporate Governance Code9 and in the interest of more informative reporting on the auditing 
process, King IV recommends that the audit committee discloses significant matters considered by it in relation 
to the annual financial statements and how these were addressed by the committee. This provides users of the 
financial statements with three different perspectives on the annual financial statements: 
• The governing body’s perspective in preparing the annual financial statements – particularly significant 
assumptions that the governing body had made.
• The perspective of the auditor on why certain areas were considered to be of most significance in the audit 
and how they were addressed in the audit. 
•
 The audit committee’s perspective on the matters it regarded as significant and how it discharged its 
responsibilities in relation to those. 
In King IV it is also recommended that the audit committee discloses its views on audit quality with reference to 
audit quality indicators.
Tax 
Tax has become a complex matter with various dimensions. The governing body should be responsible for a 
tax
 policy that is compliant with the applicable laws, but that is also congruent with responsible corporate 
citizenship, and that takes account of reputational repercussions. Hence, responsible and transparent tax policy 
is put forward as a corporate citizenship considerations in King IV.
Shareholder activism
When it comes to the quality of an organisation’s application of voluntary codes of governance principles and 
practices, it is said that its stakeholders are the ultimate compliance officers. Shareholders, as a particular 
sub-set of stakeholders, have certain rights that are enshrined in company legislation and that strengthen their 
ability to hold boards of companies to account. By virtue of this ability, shareholders also have the power to 
serve as proxies for wider stakeholder interests.
Institutional investors (in turn a sub-set of shareholders), particularly, are extremely influential. The types of 
investment decisions they make and how they exercise their rights as shareholders, either reinforce or weaken 
good governance in the companies in which they invest. 
Commensurate with the rights and influence that shareholders have, it should be considered that shareholders 
have no legal or fiduciary responsibilities to the companies in which they invest. Furthermore, shareholders are 
in many instances transient and have the right to vote on matters that may have a longer-term impact than what 
the period of their shareholding may be. 
9  The Financial Reporting Council Limited; UK Code on Corporate Governance, (April 2016), p 19, available at www.frc.org.ukWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
33
10  Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer; “A Legal Framework for the Integration of Environmental, Social and Governance Issues into Institutional Investment”,  
UNEP Finance Initiative, 2005, p 13 available at www
.unepfi.org/fileadmin/documents/freshfields_legal_resp_20051123.pdf
11  Committee for Responsible Investment in South Africa, Code for Responsible Investment in South 
Africa (Institute of Directors in Southern Africa, 2011),  
available at: www.iodsa.co.za
12  Committee for Responsible Investment in South Africa, Code for Responsible Investment in South 
Africa (Institute of Directors in Southern Africa, 2011),  
available at: www.iodsa.co.za
13  Principles for Responsible Investing available at: https://www.unpri.org/about/the-six-principles
14  International Corporate Governance Network, International Corporate Governance Network Global Stewardship Code, (2016), available at:  
https://www.icgn.org/policy/stewardship-codes
Institutional investors owe their fiduciary duty to members of retirement funds, their dependants and 
beneficiaries and this has certain consequences for how institutional investors should exercise their rights. 
The
 Freshfields Report10 published in 2005 stated that “integrating ESG considerations into an investment 
analysis so as to more reliably predict financial performance is clearly permissible and is arguably required in 
all
 jurisdictions”. This is supported by regulation 28(2)(c)(ix) of the Pension Funds 
Act: “before making an 
investment in and while invested in an asset [the fund and its board must] consider any factor which may 
materially affect the sustainable long-term performance of the asset including, but not limited to, those of an 
environmental, social and governance character”. This is also the position put forward by the Code for 
Responsible Investing in South Africa (CRISA)
11 which states in its first principle that institutional investors 
“should incorporate sustainability considerations, including ESG issues, into their investment process as part of 
the delivery of superior risk-adjusted returns to the ultimate beneficiaries”. 
In consideration of the rights, influence and legal duties that institutional investors have, as described above, 
King IV sets out in Principle 17 that the governing body of an institutional investor organisation should ensure 
that responsible investment is practiced by the organisation to promote the good governance and the creation 
of
 value by the companies in which it invests. Responsible investing principles and practices are set out in the 
CRISA12, which accord with the Principles on Responsible Investing13 and the International Corporate 
Governance Network Global Stewardship Code14.
Dispute resolution
Since alternative dispute resolution mechanisms were introduced formally in King III, resolving disputes 
effectively has gained increased importance in light of labour strike action becoming protracted and, in some 
cases, hostile. Relationships are a form of capital on which all organisations rely. A dispute resolution process 
should be regarded as an opportunity not only to resolve the dispute at hand, but also to maintain and enhance 
the social and relationship capital of an organisation. 
As a result, King IV in Part 5.5 recommends that dispute-resolution mechanisms and associated processes be 
adopted and implemented as part of the overall management of stakeholder relationships.Website Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
34
© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
PART 3
KING IV APPLICATION  
AND DISCLOSURE Website Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
35
LEGAL STATUS OF KING IV
The legal status of King IV, as with its predecessors, is that of a set of voluntary principles and leading practices. 
Corporate governance could apply on a statutory basis as rules, as a voluntary code of principles and practices, 
or as a combination of the two. In South Africa, as in many jurisdictions around the world, a hybrid system of 
corporate governance has developed as, over time, some practices of good governance have been legislated in 
parallel with the voluntary King codes of governance. If there is a conflict between legislation and King IV, now or 
in the future, the law prevails.
There is an important argument against the mandatory “comply or else” framework: A one-size-fits-all approach 
cannot logically be suitable, because the types of businesses and activities carried out by organisations are so 
varied. There is also a danger that the governing body may become focused on mindless compliance instead of 
applying its mind to the best governance practice for the particular issue before it. 
Good governance does not exist separately from the law, and a corporate governance code that applies on a 
voluntary basis may also trigger legal consequences. A court considers all relevant circumstances in determining 
the appropriate standard of conduct for those charged with governance duties, including what the generally 
accepted practices for a particular setting and situation are. Voluntary governance codes such as King IV 
recommend leading practices for how governance duties should be discharged, and therefore influence and affect 
what practices are considered and eventually adopted and implemented by governing bodies. The more widely 
certain recommended practices in codes of governance are adopted, the more likely it is that a court would regard 
conduct that conforms to these practices as meeting the required standard of care. In this way the provisions of 
voluntary codes of governance find their way into jurisprudence to become part of the common law. Consequently, 
failure to meet an established corporate governance practice, albeit not legislated, may invoke liability.
For directors of companies, adopting good corporate governance practice will be especially important if they were 
to rely on the protection afforded by the business judgement rule as provided for in the Companies Act in the 
course of litigation. In the absence of robust and sound governance structures and processes, it will be difficult, 
if
 not impossible, for a director to show that reasonably diligent steps have been taken to become informed; that 
material financial interests were absent or dealt with appropriately; and that there was a rational basis for 
believing – and that the director did believe – that a decision was in the best interests of the company.
SCOPE OF APPLICATION OF KING IV
Codes of corporate governance are concerned with the role and responsibilities of the governing body and its 
interaction with management and other material stakeholders. The governing body is the focal point of corporate 
governance in an organisation, and hence the primary audience of King IV. 
Furthermore, the King IV Report aspires to apply to all organisations, regardless of their form of incorporation. 
A
 main objective of the King IV Report is to broaden acceptance of corporate governance by making it accessible 
and fit for application across a variety of sectors and organisational types. 
In pursuit of this goal, the King IV Report includes supplements for specific sectors. In addition, the Code itself 
has been drafted to be suitable for application by all organisations. This was done by phrasing principles and 
intended governance outcomes so that they embody the essence of the Code and can be applied with the 
necessary changes in
 terminology. 
The principles and intended outcomes being the essence, the practices can 
be then adapted and modified as suitable for the sector and in accordance with proportionality considerations as 
outlined below.  
KING IV APPLICATION  
AND DISCLOSURE Website Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
36
© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
PRACTICES, PRINCIPLES AND GOVERNANCE 
OUTCOMES
A major challenge in the implementation of codes of corporate governance is that recommended practices could 
be mindlessly implemented as if they were rules, resulting in corporate governance becoming a mere compliance 
burden. This inflexibility also leads to an inability to interpret and apply codes of corporate governance in a way 
that is appropriate for the organisation and the sector in which it operates. Mindful application, on the other hand, 
harnesses the benefits of corporate governance in the interests of the organisation and applying the governance 
code comes to be seen as a process of adding rather than subtracting value. 
Understanding the relationship between governance outcomes, principles and practices as depicted below is key 
to mindful application of the King IV Code. It also supports one of the objectives of King IV
, namely to reinforce 
corporate governance as a holistic and integrated set of arrangements.
Practices 
Practices are recommended at the level of 
leading practice. The practices associated with 
a particular principle should be applied so that 
they support and give effect to the aspiration 
as expressed in that principle. Practices may 
be scaled in accordance with proportionality 
considerations.
Governance outcomes
Governance outcomes are the benefits that 
organisations could realise if the underlying 
principles - and therefore, ultimately, good 
governance - are achieved.  
These governance outcomes are: 
• Ethical culture
• Good performance
• Effective control
• Legitimacy
Principles
Principles embody the aspirations of the 
journey towards good corporate governance. 
They guide on what organisations should strive 
to achieve by the application of governance 
practices. Principles build on and reinforce 
one another; they are phrased so that they are 
fundamental to good corporate governance 
and hold true across all organisations.
KING IV APPLICATION AND DISCLOSURE  
CONTINUEDWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
37
PROPORTIONALITY 
Implementing King IV on a proportional basis means that the principles find application as they stand; they 
embody the aspirations of, and are fundamental to the journey towards good governance. The practices as 
recommended in the Code, however, are positioned at the level of leading practices, and may therefore not be 
suitable and appropriate for all organisations. Mindless compliance and a quantitative approach is not the aim. 
Instead, King IV strives to instil a qualitative approach in which recommended practices are implemented to 
achieve the principles and realise the intended governance outcomes. 
Even where not expressly stated in the Code, practices are meant to be scaled in accordance with the following 
proportionality considerations particular to the organisation: 
•
 Size of turnover and workforce.
• Resources. 
• Extent and complexity of activities, including impact on the triple context in which it operates.
Application of practices on a proportional basis is subject to legal provisions and giving effect to the principle that 
the practices are associated with.
DISCLOSURE ON APPLICATION OF KING IV
King IV application regime
The application regime for King IV is “apply and explain”: 
Apply principles Explain practices
All principles are phrased as aspirations and ideals 
that
 organisations should strive for in their journey 
towards good governance and realising the governance
 
outcomes. The principles are basic and fundamental to 
good governance, and application thereof is therefore 
assumed.
Explanation should be provided in the form of a 
narrative account, with reference to practices that 
demonstrate application of the principle. The 
explanation should address which recommended or 
other practices have been implemented, and how 
these
 achieve or give effect to the principle. 
What should be disclosed on the application of King IV?
Specific disclosure recommendations are included under each principle of the King IV Code. These 
recommendations are intended as guidance and a starting point for disclosure on the particular principle.
The detail of information to be provided in the narrative should be guided by materiality, and should enable 
stakeholders to make an informed assessment of the quality of the organisation’s governance.
There is no need to disclose whether each practice has been implemented or not, as this is quantitative and does 
not necessarily add to the quality of disclosure. There is also no need to disclose against the outcomes, as it can 
be left to the user to draw inferences from the narrative provided.Website Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
38
© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
KING IV APPLICATION AND DISCLOSURE  
CONTINUED
Where should King IV disclosure be made?
The governing body has the discretion to determine where the King IV disclosures will be made; for example, in 
the integrated report, sustainability report, social and ethics committee report, or other online or printed 
information or reports. 
The governing body may also choose to disclose its application of King IV in more than one of these reports. 
Duplication of King
 IV disclosures should be avoided by making use of cross-referencing. Group companies 
should also make use of cross-referencing to avoid duplicate disclosures. 
King IV disclosure should be updated at least annually, formally approved by the governing body and be publicly 
accessible. 
Roadmap to disclosure on the application of King IV
EFFECTIVE DATE
Disclosure on the application of King IV is effective in respect of financial years starting on or after 1 April 2017, 
but immediate transition is encouraged. King IV replaces King III in its entirety. 
Start disclosure on King IV by 
referencing all of the principles 
in the Code.
In respect of each principle, as 
the point of departure, explain in 
narrative form the matters that 
the King IV Code recommends 
for specific disclosure under 
each principle.
Consider the recommended 
practices associated with the 
principle that are not already 
included in the narrative. Expand 
the explanation to these other 
practices only if necessary to 
further demonstrate how their 
implementation supports the 
achievement of the principle.
If applicable and necessary, 
explain what alternative practices 
(practices other that those the 
King IV Code recommends 
in respect of this principle) 
have been implemented, and 
how the implementation of 
these practices supports the 
achievement of the principle.
Assess the completed 
disclosure and make the 
necessary enhancements to 
ensure that it will enable the 
users of the report to make 
an informed assessment of 
the quality of governance in 
so far as the application of 
the particular principle (and 
ultimately all of the principles 
in King IV) is concerned. Website Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
39
PART 4
KING IV ON A PAGEWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
40
© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
LEADERSHIP BY THE 
GOVERNING BODY
Approves policy 
and planning
Principle 1:  The governing body should lead 
ethically and effectively.
Principle 2:  The governing body should govern the 
ethics of the organisation in a way that 
supports the establishment of an ethical 
culture.
Principle 3:
  The governing body should ensure that 
the organisation is and is seen to be a 
responsible corporate citizen.
Principle 4:
  The governing body should appreciate 
that the organisation’s core purpose, 
its risks and opportunities, strategy, 
business model, performance and 
sustainable development are all 
inseparable elements of the value 
creation process.
Principle 5:
  The governing body should ensure 
that reports issued by the organisation 
enable stakeholders to make informed 
assessments of the organisation’s 
performance and its short, medium and 
long-term prospects.
Principle 6:
  The governing body should serve as the 
focal point and custodian of corporate 
governance in the organisation.
Principle 7:
  The governing body should comprise 
the appropriate balance of knowledge, 
skills, experience, diversity and 
independence for it to discharge its 
governance role and responsibilities 
objectively and effectively.
Principle 8:
  The governing body should ensure that 
its arrangements for delegation within 
its own structures promote independent 
judgement, and assist with balance of 
power and the effective discharge of its 
duties.
Principle 9:
  The governing body should ensure that 
the evaluation of its own performance 
and that of its committees, its chair 
and its individual members, support 
continued improvement in its 
performance and effectiveness.
PRINCIPLES
These are the governing body’s primary governance role 
and responsibilities.
Steers and sets 
strategic direction
Oversees and 
monitors
Ensures  
accountability 
Principles embody the aspirations of the journey 
towards good corporate governance. 
KING IV ON A PAGEWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
41
Ethical   
culture
Good  
performance
Effective 
control
Legitimacy
Principle 10:  The governing body should ensure that 
the appointment of, and delegation to, 
management contribute to role clarity and 
the effective exercise of authority and 
responsibilities.
Principle 1
1:  The governing body should govern risk 
in a way that supports the organisation 
in setting and achieving its strategic 
objectives.
Principle 12:
  The governing body should govern 
technology and information in a way that 
supports the organisation setting and 
achieving its strategic objectives.
Principle 13:
  The governing body should govern 
compliance with applicable laws and 
adopted, non-binding rules, codes and 
standards in a way that supports the 
organisation being ethical and a good 
corporate citizen.
Principle 14:
  The governing body should ensure that 
the organisation remunerates fairly, 
responsibly and transparently so as to 
promote the achievement of strategic 
objectives and positive outcomes in the 
short, medium and long term.
Principle 15:
  The governing body should ensure that 
assurance services and functions enable 
an effective control environment, and that 
these support the integrity of information 
for internal decision-making and of the 
organisation’s external reports.
Principle 
16:  In the execution of its governance role 
and responsibilities, the governing body 
should adopt a stakeholder-inclusive 
approach that balances the needs, 
interests and expectations of material 
stakeholders in the best interests of the 
organisation over time. 
Principle 17:
  The governing body of an institutional 
investor organisation should ensure that 
responsible investment is practiced by 
the organisation to promote the good 
governance and the creation of value by 
the companies in which it invests.
GOVERNANCE 
OUTCOMESPRINCIPLES
Practices support 
and give effect to 
the principles.
These are the benefits that 
organisations could realise through 
good governance.
PRACTICES
They guide on what organisations should strive to 
achieve by the application of governance practices.Website Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
42
© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
PART 5
KING IV CODE ON  
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Part 5.1: Leadership, ethics and corporate citizenship
Part 5.2: Strategy, performance and reporting
Part 5.3: Governing structures and delegation
Part 5.4: Governance functional areas
Part 5.5: Stakeholder relationshipsWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
43
Ethical  
culture
Good 
performance
Effective  
control
Legitimacy
PART 5.1: LEADERSHIP, ETHICS AND 
CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP
Leadership
Principle 1: The governing body should lead ethically and effectively.
RECOMMENDED PRACTICES
1.    Members of the governing body should individually and collectively cultivate the following characteristics and 
exhibit them in their conduct:
 a. Integrity: 
  i.  Members of the governing body must act in good faith and in the best interests of the organisation.
  ii.  Members of the governing body should avoid conflicts of interest. In cases where a conflict cannot be 
avoided, it should be disclosed to the governing body in full at the earliest opportunity, and then 
proactively managed as determined by the governing body and subject to legal provisions. 
  iii. Members of the governing body should act ethically beyond mere legal compliance.
  iv. Members of the governing body should set the tone for an ethical organisational culture. 
 b. Competence: 
  i.  Members of the governing body should take steps to ensure that they have sufficient working 
knowledge of the organisation, its industry, the triple context in which it operates, the capitals it uses 
and af
fects as well as of the key laws, rules, codes and standards applicable to the organisation.
  ii.  Members of the governing body must act with due care, skill and diligence, and take reasonably 
diligent steps to become informed about matters for decision.
  iii. Members of the governing body should continuously develop their competence to lead effectively
. 
 c. Responsibility: 
  i.  Members of the governing body should assume collective responsibility for steering and setting the 
direction of the organisation; approving policy and planning; overseeing and monitoring of 
implementation and execution by management; and ensuring accountability for organisational 
performance.
  ii.  Members of the governing body should exercise courage in taking risks and capturing opportunities, 
but do so in a responsible manner and in the best interests of the organisation. 
  iii.  Members of the governing body should take responsibility for anticipating, preventing or otherwise 
ameliorating the negative outcomes of the organisation’s activities and outputs on the triple context in 
which it
 operates, and the capitals that it uses and affects.
  iv.  Members of the governing body should attend meetings of the governing body and its committees, and 
devote sufficient time and effort to prepare for those meetings.
 d. Accountability: 
    Members of the governing body should be willing to answer for the execution of their responsibilities, even 
when these were
 delegated.
KING IV CODE ON CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCEWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
44
© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
 e. Fairness: 
  i.  Members of the governing body should adopt a stakeholder-inclusive approach in the execution of their 
governance role and responsibilities.
  ii.  Members of the governing body should direct the organisation in such a way that it does not adversely 
affect the natural environment, society or future generations.
 f. Transparency: 
    Members of the governing body should be transparent in the manner in which they exercise their 
governance role and
 responsibilities. 
2.  The governing body should embody the above ethical charac
teristics in order to offer effective leadership that 
results in achieving strategic objectives and positive outcomes over time.
3.  The arrangements by which the members of the governing body are being held to account for ethical and 
ef
fective leadership should be disclosed. These arrangements would include, but are not limited to, codes of 
conduct and performance evaluations of the governing body and its members.
Organisational ethics
RECOMMENDED PRACTICES
4.  The governing body should assume responsibility for the gov ernance of ethics by setting the direction for how 
ethics should be approached and addressed by the organisation.
5.  The governing body should approve codes of conduct and eth
ics policies that articulate and give effect to its 
direction on organisational ethics. 
6. The governing body should ensure that codes of conduct and
 ethics policies: 
 a.  encompass the organisation’
s interaction with both internal and external stakeholders and the broader  
society; and
 b. address the key ethical risks of the organisation.
7.  The governing body should ensure that the codes of conduct and ethics policies provide for arrangements that 
familiarise employees and other stakeholders with the organisation’
s ethical standards. These arrangements 
should include: 
 a.  publishing the organisation’
s codes of conduct and policies on the organisation’s website, or on other 
platforms or through other media as is appropriate;
 b.  the incorporation by reference, or otherwise, of the relevant
 codes of conduct and policies in supplier and 
employee contracts; and 
 c. including the codes of conduct and ethics policies in employee induction and training programmes.
8.  The governing body should delegate to management the resp
onsibility for implementation and execution of 
the codes of conduct and ethics policies. 
KING IV CODE ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CONTINUED
Principle 2: The governing body should govern the ethics of the organisation in a 
way that supports the establishment of an ethical culture.Website Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
45
9.  The governing body should exercise ongoing oversight of the  management of ethics and, in particular, 
oversee that it results in the following:
 a.  Application of the organisation’s ethical standards to the pro
cesses for the recruitment, evaluation of 
performance and reward of employees, as well as the sourcing of suppliers. 
 b. Having sanctions and remedies in place for when the organ
isation’s ethical standards are breached.
 c.  The use of protected disclosure or whistle-blowing mechanisms to detect breaches of ethical standards 
and dealing with such disclosures appropriately
.
 d.  The monitoring of adherence to the organisation’
s ethical standards by employees and other stakeholders 
through, among others, periodic independent assessments.
10. The following should be disclosed in relation to organisationa
l ethics: 
 a. An overview of the arrangements for governing and manag
ing ethics.
 b. Key areas of focus during the reporting period.
 c. Measures taken to monitor organisational ethics and how the outcomes were addressed. 
 d. Planned areas of future focus.
Responsible corporate citizenship
RECOMMENDED PRACTICES
11.  The governing body should assume responsibility for corpora te citizenship by setting the direction for how it 
should be approached and addressed by the organisation. 
12.  The governing body should ensure that the organisation’
s responsible corporate citizenship efforts include 
compliance with the Constitution of South Africa (including the Bill of Rights), the law, leading standards, and 
adherence to its own codes of conduct and policies. 
13.  The governing body should oversee that the organisation’
s core purpose and values, strategy and conduct are 
congruent with it being a responsible corporate citizen.
14.  The governing body should oversee and monitor, on an ongoing basis, how the consequences of the organisation’s
 
activities and outputs affect its status as a responsible corporate citizen. This oversight and monitoring should be 
performed against measures and targets agreed with management in all of the following areas:
 a.  Workplace (including emplo
yment equity; fair remuneration; and the safety, health, dignity and 
development of employees).
 b.  Economy (including economic transformation; prevention, detection and response to fraud and corruption; 
and responsible and transparent tax policy).
 c.  Society (including public health and safety; consumer protection; community development; and protection 
of human
 rights). 
 d.  Environment (including responsibilities in respect of pollutio
n and waste disposal; and protection of 
biodiversity).
Principle 3: The governing body should ensure that the organisation is and is seen 
to be a responsible corporate citizen.
Ethical  
culture
Good 
performance
Effective  
control
LegitimacyWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
46
© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
15. The following should be disclosed in relation to corporate citiz enship:
 a. An overview of the arrangements for governing and manag
ing responsible corporate citizenship.
 b. Key areas of focus during the reporting period.
 c. Measures taken to monitor corporate citizenship and how the outcomes were addressed.
 d. Planned areas of future focus.
KING IV CODE ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CONTINUEDWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
47
PART 5.2: STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE  
AND REPORTING
Strategy and performance
RECOMMENDED PRACTICES
1.  The governing body should assume responsibility for organis ational performance by steering and setting the 
direction for the realisation of the organisation’s core purpose and values through its strategy. 
2.  The governing body should delegate to management the form
ulation and development of the organisation’s 
short, medium and long-term strategy.
3.  The organisation’s short, medium and long-term strategy as f
ormulated and developed by management 
should be approved by the governing body. When considering the proposed strategy for approval, the 
governing body should challenge it constructively with reference to, among others, the following:
 a.  The timelines and parameters which determine the meaning
 of short, medium and long term respectively. 
 b.  The risks, opportunities and other significant matters connected to the triple context in which the 
organisation operates. 
 c.  The extent to which the proposed strategy depends on the resources and relationships connected to the 
various forms of capital.
 d. The legitimate and reasonable needs, interests and expecta
tions of material stakeholders.
 e.  The increase, decrease or transformation of the various forms of capitals that may result from the 
execution of the proposed
 strategy.
 f.  The interconnectivity and inter-dependence of all of the abov
e.
4.  The governing body should ensure that it approves the policie
s and operational plans developed by 
management to give effect to the approved strategy. These should include the key performance measures 
and
 targets for assessing the achievement of strategic objectives and positive outcomes over the short, 
medium and long term.
5.  The governing body should delegate to management the resp
onsibility to implement and execute the 
approved policies and operational plans.
6.  The governing body should exercise ongoing oversight of the
 implementation of strategy and operational 
plans by management against agreed performance measures and targets.
7.  The governing body should oversee that the organisation con
tinually assesses, and responsibly responds to, 
the negative consequences of its activities and outputs on the triple context in which it operates, and the 
capitals which it uses and affects.
8.  As part of its oversight of performance, the governing body should be alert to the general viability of the 
organisation with regard to its reliance and effects on the capitals, its solvency and liquidity
, and its status as a 
going concern.
Principle 4: The governing body should appreciate that the organisation’s 
core purpose, its risks and opportunities, strategy, business model, performance 
and sustainable development are all inseparable elements of the value 
creation process.
Ethical  
culture
Good 
performance
Effective  
control
LegitimacyWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
48
© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
In respect of disclosure on strategy and performance, refer to Reporting below.
Reporting
RECOMMENDED PRACTICES
9.  The governing body should assume responsibility for the orga nisation’s reporting by setting the direction for 
how it should be approached and conducted. 
10.  The governing body should approve management’
s determination of the reporting frameworks (including 
reporting standards) to be used, taking into account legal requirements and the intended audience and 
purpose of each report.
11.  The governing body should oversee that reports such as the 
annual financial statements, sustainability 
reports, social and ethics committee reports, or other online or printed information or reports are issued, as is 
necessary, to comply with legal requirements, and/or to meet the legitimate and reasonable information needs 
of material stakeholders.
12.
  The governing body should oversee that the organisation issu
es an integrated report at least annually, which 
is either: 
 a.  a standalone report which connects the more detailed inform
ation in other reports and addresses, at a high 
level and in a complete, concise way, the matters that could significantly affect the organisation’s ability to 
create value; or 
 b.  a distinguishable, prominent and accessible part of another
 report which also includes the annual financial 
statements and other reports that must be issued in compliance with legal provisions.
13.  The governing body should approve management’
s bases for determining materiality for the purpose of 
deciding which information should be included in external reports.
14.  The governing body should ensure the integrity of external re
ports as provided for in Part 5.4, Assurance of 
External Reports. 
15.  The governing body should oversee that the following informa
tion is published on the organisation’s website, 
or on other platforms or through other media as is appropriate for access by stakeholders:
 a.  Corporate governance disclosures required in terms of this Code (refer to Part 3: 
King IV Application and 
Disclosure for more detail).
 b. Integrated reports. 
 c. Annual financial statements and other external reports.
Principle 5: The governing body should ensure that reports issued by the 
organisation enable stakeholders to make informed assessments of the 
organisation’s performance, and its short, medium and long-term prospects.
KING IV CODE ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CONTINUEDWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
49
PART 5.3: GOVERNING STRUCTURES AND 
DELEGATION
Primary role and responsibilities of the governing body
RECOMMENDED PRACTICES
1. The governing body should exercise its leadership role by:
 a.  steering the organisation and setting its strategic direction;
 b.  approving policy and planning that give ef
fect to the direction provided;
 c.  overseeing and monitoring of implementation and execution
 by management; and
 d.  ensuring accountability for organisational performance by m
eans of, among others, reporting and 
disclosure.
2.  The governing body should ensure that its role, responsibilitie
s, membership requirements and procedural 
conduct are documented in a charter which it regularly reviews to guide its effective functioning.
3.  The governing body should approve the protocol to be followe
d in the event that it or any of its members or 
committees need to obtain independent, external professional advice at the cost of the organisation on 
matters within the scope of their duties.
4.  The governing body should approve the protocol to be followe
d by its non-executive members for 
requisitioning documentation from, and setting up meetings with, management. 
5. The following should be disclosed in relation to the primary ro
le and responsibilities of the governing body:
 a.  The number of meetings held during the reporting period, and attendance at those meetings.
 b.  Whether the governing body is satisfied that it has fulfilled its responsibilities in accordance with its charter 
for the reporting period.
Principle 6: The governing body should serve as the focal point and custodian of 
corporate governance in the organisation.
Ethical  
culture
Good 
performance
Effective  
control
LegitimacyWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
50
© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
Composition of the governing body
RECOMMENDED PRACTICES
Composition
6.   The governing body should assume responsibility for its comp osition by setting the direction and approving the 
processes for it to attain the appropriate balance of knowledge, skills, experience, diversity and independence 
to objectively and effectively discharge its governance role and responsibilities.
7.  When determining the requisite number of members of the governing body
, the following factors should be 
considered:
 a.  
 The appropriate mix of knowledge, skills and experience, including the business, commercial and industry 
experience, needed to govern the organisation. 
 b.  The appropriate mix of executive, non-executive and independent non-executive members.
 c.  The need for a sufficient number of members that qualify to serve on the committees of the governing 
body.
 d.  The need to secure a quorum at meetings. 
 e.  Regulatory 
requirements.
 f.  Diversity targets relating to the composition of the governing body.
8.  The governing body should comprise a majority of non-execu
tive members, most of whom should be 
independent. 
9.  As a minimum, the chief executive officer (CEO) and at least one other executive should be appointed to the 
governing body to ensure that it has more than one point of direct interaction with management. The executive 
other than the CEO appointed to the governing body may be the chief finance officer (CFO) or another 
designated executive as is appropriate for the organisation.
10.
  The governing body should promote diversity in its membersh
ip across a variety of attributes relevant for 
promoting better decision-making and effective governance, including field of knowledge, skills and experience 
as well as age, culture, race
 and gender. 
1
1. The governing body should set targets for race and gender re
presentation in its membership. 
12.  The governing body should establish arrangements for period
ic, staggered rotation of its members so as to 
invigorate its capabilities by introducing members with new expertise and perspectives while retaining valuable 
knowledge, skills and experience and maintaining continuity. 
13.
  The governing body should establish a succession plan for its
 membership which should include the 
identification, mentorship and development of future candidates.
Principle 7: The governing body should comprise the appropriate balance of 
knowledge, skills, experience, diversity and independence for it to discharge its 
governance role and responsibilities objectively and effectively.
KING IV CODE ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CONTINUEDWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
51
Nomination, election and appointment of members to the governing body 
14.  The nomination of candidates for election as members of the governing body should be approved by the 
governing body as a whole.
15.  The processes for nomination, election and ultimately
, the appointment of members to the governing body 
should be formal and transparent.
16. Before nominating a candidate for election, the governing bod
y should consider the following:
 a.  The collective knowledge, skills and experience required by
 the governing body.
 b.  The diversity of the governing body.
 c.  Whether the candidate meets the appropriate fit and proper criteria.
17.  Nomination for re-election of an incumbent of the governing b
ody should be considered by the governing body 
on the basis of that member’s performance, including attendance at meetings of the governing body and its 
committees.
18.
  A candidate for election as a non-executive member of the go
verning body should be requested to provide the 
governing body with details of professional commitments and a statement that confirms that the candidate has 
sufficient time available to fulfil the responsibilities as member of the governing body. 
19.
  Prior to their nomination for election, candidates’ backgrounds
 should be independently investigated, and their 
qualifications should be independently verified. 
20.  A brief professional profile of each candidate standing for elec
tion at the annual general meeting (AGM), 
including details of existing professional commitments, should accompany the notice of the AGM, together 
with a statement from the governing body confirming whether it supports the candidate’s election or  
re-election. 
21.
  Upon election, the terms and conditions for serving as a member of the governing body should be formalised 
in a letter of
 appointment. 
22.  The governing body 
should ensure that incoming members are inducted to enable them to make the maximum 
contribution within the shortest time possible. 
23.  Members of the governing body with no or limited governance experience should be provided with mentorship 
and encouraged to undergo training. 
24.
  A programme of professional
 development and regular briefings on legal and corporate governance 
developments, and risks and changes in the external environment of the organisation, should be provided for 
members of the governing body.
Independence and conflicts
25.  Subject to legal provisions, each member of the governing bo dy should submit to the governing body a 
declaration of all financial, economic and other interests held by the member and related parties at least 
annually, or whenever there are significant changes. 
26.
  At the beginning of each meeting of the governing body or its
 committees, all members should be required 
to declare whether any of them has any conflict of interest in respect of a matter on the agenda. Any such 
conflicts should be proactively managed as determined by the governing body and subject to legal provisions.
27.  Non-executive members of the governing body may be categorised by the governing body as independent 
if
 it concludes that there is no interest, position, association or relationship which, when judged from the 
perspective of a reasonable and informed third party, is likely to influence unduly or cause bias in decision-
making in the best interests of the organisation.
Ethical  
culture
Good 
performance
Effective  
control
LegitimacyWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
52
© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
28.  The governing body should consider the following and other i ndicators holistically, and on a substance-over-
form basis, when assessing the independence of a member of the governing body for purposes of 
categorisation. The member of the governing body: 
 a.  is a significant provider of financial capital, or ongoing funding to the organisation; or is an officer, 
employee or a representative of such provider of financial capital or funding;
 b.  if the organisation is a company, participates in a share-bas
ed incentive scheme offered by the company; 
 c.  if the organisation is a company, owns securities in the com
pany, the value of which is material to the 
personal wealth of the director;
 d.  has been in the employ of the organisation as an executive manager during the preceding three financial 
years, or is a related party to such executive manager;
 e.  has been the designated external auditor responsible for performing the statutory audit for the 
organisation, or a key member of the audit team of the external audit firm, during the preceding three 
financial years;
 f.  is a significant or ongoing professional adviser to the organis
ation, other than as a member of the 
governing body; 
 g.  is a member of the governing body or the executive management of a significant customer of, or supplier 
to, the
 organisation; 
 h.  is a member of the governing body or the executive management of another organisation which is a 
related party to the organisation; or
 i.  is entitled to remuneration contingent on the performance of the organisation.
29.  A non-executive member of the governing body may continue
 to serve, in an independent capacity, for longer 
than nine years if, upon an assessment by the governing body conducted every year after nine years, it is 
concluded that the member exercises objective judgement and there is no interest, position, association or 
relationship which, when judged from the perspective of a reasonable and informed third party, is likely to 
influence unduly or cause bias in decision-making.
30.
  The following should be disclosed with regards to the compos
ition of the governing body: 
 a.  Whether the governing body is satisfied that its composition reflects the appropriate mix of knowledge, 
skills, experience, diversity and independence.
 b.  The targets set for gender and race representation in the membership of the governing body, and progress 
made against these targets.
 c.  The categorisation of each member as executive or non-exe
cutive.
 d.  The categorisation of each non-executive member as indep
endent or not and, when a non-executive 
member of the governing body has been serving for longer than nine years, a summary of the views of the 
governing body on the independence of the member.
 e.  The qualifications and experience of members.
 f.  Each member’s period of service on the governing body
. 
 g.  The age of each member.
 h.  Other governing body and professional positions held by each member
.
 i.  The reasons why any members of the governing body have been removed, resigned or retired. 
KING IV CODE ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CONTINUEDWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
53
Chair of the governing body 
31.  The governing body should elect an independent non-executi ve member as chair to lead the governing body 
in the objective and effective discharge of its governance role and responsibilities. 
32.  The governing body should appoint an independent non-exec
utive member as the lead independent to fulfil 
the following functions:
 a.  To lead in the absence of the chair
.
 b.  To serve as a sounding board for the chair
. 
 c.  To act as an intermediary between the chair and other mem
bers of the governing body, if necessary.
 d.  To deal with shareholders’
 concerns where contact through the normal channels has failed to resolve 
concerns, or where such contact is inappropriate.
 e.  To strengthen independence on the governing body if the ch
air is not an independent non-executive 
member of the governing body.
 f.  To chair discussions and de
cision-making by the governing body on matters where the chair has a conflict 
of interest.
 g.  To lead the performance ap
praisal of the chair. 
33.  The chair’s role, responsibilit
ies and term in office, as well as that of the lead independent, should be 
documented in the charter of the governing body or elsewhere.
34.  The CEO of the organisation should not also chair the governing body
, and the retired CEO should not 
become the chair of the governing body until three complete years have passed after the end of the 
CEO’s tenure.
35.  In order to determine whether the chair is able to perform the duties of this office ef
fectively, the chair, together 
with the governing body, should determine the number of outside professional positions that the chair is 
allowed to hold, taking into account the relative size and complexity of the organisations involved. 
36.
  When determining which of its committees the chair of the governing body should serve on, either as member 
or chair, the governing body should consider how this af
fects the overall concentration and balance of power 
on the governing body. Generally, the following should apply: 
 a.  The chair should not be a member of the audit committee.
 b.  The chair may be a member of the committee responsible for remuneration but should not be its chair
.
 c.  The chair should be a member of the committee responsible for nominations of members of the governing 
body and may also be its
 chair.
 d.  The chair may be a member of the committee responsible for risk governance and may also be its chair
.
 e.  The chair may be a member of the social and ethics committee but should not be its chair
.
37.  The governing body should ensure there is succession plann
ing in place for the position of chair.
38.  The following should be disclosed in relation to the chair: 
 a.  Whether the chair is considered to be independent. 
 b.  Whether or not an independent non-executive member of the governing body has been appointed as the 
lead independent, and the role and responsibilities assigned to the position.
Ethical  
culture
Good 
performance
Effective  
control
LegitimacyWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
54
© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
Committees of the governing body
RECOMMENDED PRACTICES
General
39.  The governing body should determine if and when to delegate  particular roles and responsibilities to an 
individual member or members of the governing body, or to standing or ad hoc-committees. The exercise of 
judgement by the governing body in this regard, is subject to legal requirements and should be guided by what 
is appropriate for the organisation and achieving the objectives of the delegation.
40.
  In the event that the governing body determines not to delegate all or some of the responsibilities dealt with in 
this Code as part of the responsibilities of a specific committee, the governing body should ensure that it fulfils 
those responsibilities itself.
41.
  Delegation to an individual member or members of the govern
ing body should be recorded in writing and 
approved by the governing body. The record should set out the nature and extent of the responsibilities 
delegated, decision-making authority, the duration of the delegation, and the delegates’ reporting 
responsibilities. 
42.
  Delegation to committees should be recorded by means of a formal terms of reference that should be 
approved and reviewed annually by the governing body
.
43.  The terms of reference should, at a minimum, deal with the following:
 a.  The composition of the committee and, if applicable, the process and criteria for the appointment of any 
committee members who are not members of the governing body
. 
 b.  The committee’s overall role and associated responsibilities
 and functions.
 c.  Delegated authority with respect to decision-making.
 d.  The tenure of the committee. 
 e.  When and how the committee should report to the governing body and others. 
 f.  The committee’s access to resources and information.
 g.  The meeting procedures to be followed. 
 h.  The arrangements for evaluating the committee’
s performance. 
44.  The governing body should consider the allocation of roles an
d associated responsibilities and the 
composition of membership across committees holistically, so as to achieve the following: 
 a.  Effective collaboration through cross-membership between 
committees, where required; coordinated 
timing of meetings; and avoidance of duplication or fragmented functioning in so far as possible. 
 b.  Where more than one committee has jurisdiction to deal with a similar matter
, the specific role and 
positioning of each committee in relation to such matter are defined to ensure complementary rather than 
competing approaches.
 c.  A balanced distribution 
of power in respect of membership across committees, so that no individual has the 
ability to dominate decision-making, and no undue reliance is placed on any individual.
Principle 8: The governing body should ensure that its arrangements for 
delegation within its own structures promote independent judgement, and assist 
with balance of power and the effective discharge of its duties.
KING IV CODE ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CONTINUEDWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
55
45.  The governing body should ensure that each committee, as a whole, has the necessary knowledge, skills, 
experience and capacity to execute its duties ef
fectively. 
46.  Each committee should have a minimum of three members subject to legal provisions, where applicable. 
47.  Members of the executive and senior management should be invited to attend committee meetings either by 
standing invitation or on an ad hoc
-basis to provide pertinent information and insights in their areas of 
responsibility.
48.  Every member of the governing body is entitled to attend any committee meeting as an observer
. However, 
unless that member is also a member of the committee, the member is not entitled to participate without the 
consent of the chair; does not have a vote; and is not entitled to fees for such attendance, unless payment of 
fees is agreed to by the governing body and shareholders.
49.
  Any delegation by the governing body of its responsibilities to a committee or a member of the governing body 
member will not by or of itself constitute a discharge of the governing body’
s accountability. The governing 
body should apply its collective mind to the information, opinions, recommendations, reports and statements 
presented by the committee or the member.
50.
  The following should be disclosed in relation to each committ
ee of the governing body:
 a.  Its overall role and associated responsibilities and functions.
 b.  Its composition, including each member’
s qualifications and experience. 
 c.  Any external advisers or invitees who regularly attend committee meetings. 
 d.  Key areas of focus during the reporting period.
 e.  The number of meetings held during the reporting period and attendance at those meetings. 
 f.  Whether the committee is satisfied that it has fulfilled its responsibilities in accordance with its terms of 
reference for the reporting period. 
Audit committee
51.  The establishment of an audit committee is a statutory requirement for some organisations. As a matter of 
leading
 practice, the governing body of any organisation that issues audited financial statements should 
consider establishing an audit committee, the role of which should be to provide independent oversight of, 
among others:
 a.  the effectiveness of the organisation’s assurance functions 
and services, with particular focus on combined 
assurance arrangements, including external assurance service providers, internal audit and the finance 
function; and
 b.  the integrity of the annual financial statements and, to the extent delegated by the governing body, other 
external reports issued by the organisation.
52.
  A statutory audit committee has the power to make decisions regarding its statutory duties, and is accountable 
for its performance in this regard. In addition to its statutory duties, the governing body may delegate other 
responsibilities to the audit committee, such as the approval of the annual financial statements, but the 
governing body remains ultimately accountable for such delegated responsibilities.
53.
  If the governing body delegates risk governance to the audit committee, the audit committee should satisfy 
itself that it dedicates sufficient time to this responsibility
.
54.  Whether or not the governance of risk is delegated to the audit committee, the audit committee should oversee 
the management 
of financial and other risks that affect the integrity of external reports issued by the organisation.
Ethical  
culture
Good 
performance
Effective  
control
LegitimacyWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
56
© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
55.  The members of the audit committee should, as a whole, have the necessary financial literacy , skills and 
experience to execute their duties effectively. 
56.  All members of the audit committee should be independent, non-executive members of the governing body
. 
57.  The governing body should appoint an independent, non-exe
cutive member to chair the audit committee.
58.  The audit committee should meet annually with the internal a
nd external auditors respectively, without 
management being present, to facilitate an exchange of views and concerns that may not be appropriate for 
discussion in an open forum. 
59.  In addition to required statutory disclosure and the disclosures recommended in paragraph 50, the following 
should also be disclosed in relation to the audit committee: 
 a.  A statement as to whether the audit committee is satisfied that the external auditor is independent of the 
organisation. 
The statement should specifically address:
  i.  the policy and controls that address the provision of non-aud
it services by the external auditor, and the 
nature and extent of such services rendered during the financial year; 
  ii.  the tenure of the external audit firm and, in the event of the firm having been involved in a merger or 
acquisition, including the tenure of the predecessor firm;
  iii.  the rotation of the designated external audit partner; and
  iv.  significant changes in the management of the organisation 
during the external audit firm’s tenure which 
may mitigate the attendant risk of familiarity between the external auditor and management. 
 b.  Significant matters that the audit committee has considered in relation to the annual financial statements, 
and how these were addressed by the committee. 
 c.  The audit committee’s views on the quality of the external audit, with reference to audit quality indicators 
such as those that may be included in inspection reports issued by external audit regulators. 
 d.  The audit committee’s views on the effectiveness of the chie
f audit executive and the arrangements for 
internal audit.
 e.  The audit committee’s views on the effectiveness of the des
ign and implementation of internal financial 
controls, and on the nature and extent of any significant weaknesses in the design, implementation or 
execution of internal financial controls that resulted in material financial loss, fraud, corruption or error.
 f.  The audit committee’s views on the ef
fectiveness of the CFO and the finance function.
 g.  The arrangements in place for combined assurance and the
 committee’s views on its effectiveness.
Committee responsible for nominations of members of the governing body
60.  The governing body should consider allocating the oversight of the following to a dedicated committee, 
or adding it to the responsibilities of another committee as is appropriate for the organisation:
 a.  The process for nominating, electing and appointing membe
rs of the governing body. 
 b.  Succession planning in respect of governing body members
. 
 c.  Evaluation of the performance of the governing body.
KING IV CODE ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CONTINUEDWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
57
61.  All members of the committee for nominations should be non-executive members of the governing body , 
and the majority should be independent.
Refer to paragraph 50 for the recommended disclosures in relation to the committee responsible for nominations.
Committee responsible for risk governance
62.  The governing body should consider allocating the oversight of risk governance to a dedicated committee, 
or adding it to the responsibilities of another committee as is appropriate for the organisation.
63.  If the committees for audit and risk are separate, the governing body should consider for one or more 
members to have joint membership of both committees for more effective functioning. 
64.  The committee for risk governance should have executive and non-executive members, with a majority being 
non-executive members of the governing body.
Refer to paragraph 50 for the recommended disclosures in relation to the committee responsible for risk. 
Committee responsible for remuneration
65.  The governing body should consider allocating oversight of re muneration to a dedicated committee, or adding 
it to the responsibilities of another committee as is appropriate for the organisation.
66.  All members of the committee for remuneration should be non-executive members of the governing body
, with 
the majority being independent non-executive members of the governing body.
67.  The committee for remuneration should be chaired by an independent non-executive member. 
Refer to 
paragraph 50 for the recommended disclosures in relation to the committee responsible for remuneration.
Social and ethics committee
68.  For some companies, the establishment of a social and ethics committee is a statutory requirement. The 
governing body of any organisation not so obliged should consider allocating oversight of, and reporting on, 
organisational ethics, responsible corporate citizenship, sustainable development and stakeholder 
relationships to a dedicated committee, or adding it to the responsibilities of another committee as is 
appropriate for the organisation.
69.
  The responsibilities of the social and ethics committee should
 include its statutory duties (if applicable) and 
any other responsibilities delegated to it by the governing body. 
70.  The social and ethics committee should, subject to legal provisions, have executive and non-executive 
members, with a majority being non-executive members of the governing body
.
Refer to paragraph 50 for the recommended disclosures in relation to the social and ethics committee. 
Ethical  
culture
Good 
performance
Effective  
control
LegitimacyWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
58
© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
Evaluations of the performance of the governing body 
RECOMMENDED PRACTICES
71.  The governing body should assume responsibility for the eva luation of its own performance and that of its 
committees, its chair and its individual members by determining how it should be approached and conducted.
72.  The governing body should appoint an independent non-exec
utive member to lead the evaluation of the 
chair’s performance if a lead independent is not in place.
73.  A formal process, either externally facilitated or not in accordance with methodology approved by the 
governing body
, should be followed for evaluating the performance of the governing body, its committees, its 
chair and its individual members at least every two years.
74.  Every alternate year, the governing body should schedule in i
ts yearly work plan an opportunity for 
consideration, reflection and discussion of its performance and that of its committees, its chair and its 
members as a whole.
75.
  The following should be disclosed in relation to the evaluation
 of the performance of the governing body: 
 a.  A description of the performance evaluations undertaken du
ring the reporting period, including their scope, 
whether they were formal or informal, and whether they were externally facilitated or not.
 b.  An overview of the evaluation results and remedial actions 
taken.
 c.  Whether the governing body is satisfied that the evaluation process is improving its performance and 
ef
fectiveness.
Appointment and delegation to management 
RECOMMENDED PRACTICES 
CEO appointment and role
76.  The governing body should appoint the CEO.
77.  The CEO should be responsible for leading the implementation and execution of approved strategy
, policy and 
operational planning, and should serve as the chief link between management and the governing body.
78.  The CEO should be accountable, and report to, the governing body
.
79.  The CEO should not be a member of the remuneration, audit or nomination committees, but should attend by 
invitation any meeting, or part thereof, if needed to contribute pertinent insights and information.
Principle 9: The governing body should ensure that the evaluation of its own 
performance and that of its committees, its chair and its individual members, 
support continued improvement in its performance and effectiveness.
Principle 10: The governing body should ensure that the appointment of, and 
delegation to, management contribute to
 role clarity and the effective exercise of 
authority and responsibilities.
KING IV CODE ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CONTINUEDWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
59
80.  The CEO and the governing body should agree on whether the CEO takes up additional professional 
positions, including membership of other governing bodies outside the organisation. 
Time constraints and 
potential conflicts of interest should be considered and balanced against the opportunity for professional 
development. 
81.
  The governing body should satisfy itself that there is succession planning for the CEO position in place to 
provide continuity of executive leadership. Succession planning should be reviewed periodically
, and should 
provide for both succession in emergency situations and succession over the longer term.
82.  The governing body should formally evaluate the performanc
e of the CEO against agreed performance 
measures and targets at least annually.
83.  The following should be disclosed in relation to the CEO: 
 a.  The notice period stipulated in the CEO’s employment cont
ract and the contractual conditions related to 
termination. 
 b.  Other professional commitments of the CEO, including membership of governing bodies outside the 
organisation.
 c.  Whether succession planning is in place for the CEO position.
Delegation
84.  The governing body should set the direction and parameters for the powers which are to be reserved for itself, 
and those that are to be delegated to management via the CEO.
85.  The governing body should approve a delegation of authority
 framework that articulates its set direction on 
reservation and delegation of power.
86.  The governing body should ensure that the delegation of auth
ority framework addresses the authority to 
appoint executives who will serve as ex officio-executive members of the governing body and to make other 
executive appointments.
87.  The governing body should oversee that key management fu
nctions are:
 a.  headed by an individual with the necessary competence an
d authority, and
 b.  adequately 
resourced.
88.  The governing body should satisfy itself that there is succession planning in place for executive management 
and other key positions to provide continuity of leadership. Succession planning should be reviewed 
periodically
, and provide for both succession in emergency situations and succession over the longer term.
89.  A statement by the governing body on whether it is satisfied t
hat the delegation of authority framework 
contributes to role clarity and the effective exercise of authority and responsibilities should be disclosed.
Professional corporate governance services to the governing body
90.  The governing body should ensure that it has access to professional and independent guidance on corporate 
governance and its legal duties, and also that it has support to coordinate the functioning of the governing 
body and its committees.
91.
  For some companies, the appointment of a company secretary is a statutory requirement. In respect of those 
companies, the company secretary provides professional corporate governance services. 
The governing body 
of an organisation not so obliged should, as a matter of leading practice, consider appointing a company 
secretary or other professional, as is appropriate for the organisation, to provide professional corporate 
governance services to the governing body.
Ethical  
culture
Good 
performance
Effective  
control
LegitimacyWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
60
© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
92.  The governing body should approve the arrangements for the  provision of professional corporate governance 
services, including whether to outsource them to a juristic person, or to make a full-time or part-time 
appointment.
93.  Regardless of the arrangements it has approved, the governi
ng body should ensure that the office of the 
company secretary or other professional providing corporate governance services, is empowered and that the 
position carries the necessary authority. 
94.
  The governing body should approve the appointment, includin
g the employment contract and remuneration of 
the company secretary or other professional providing corporate governance services. The governing body 
should oversee that the person appointed has the necessary competence, gravitas and objectivity to provide 
independent guidance and support at the highest level of decision-making in the organisation. 
95.
  The governing body should have primary responsibility for the
 removal of the company secretary or other 
professional providing corporate governance services.
96.  The company secretary or other professional providing corporate governance services should have unfettered 
access to the governing body but, for reasons of independence, should maintain an arms-length relationship 
with it and its members; accordingly
, the company secretary should not be a member of the governing body. 
97.  The company secretary or other professional providing corporate governance services should report to the 
governing body via the chair on all statutory duties and functions performed in connection with the governing 
body
. Regarding other duties and administrative matters, the company secretary or other professional 
providing corporate governance services should report to the member of executive management designated 
for this purpose as is appropriate for the organisation.
98.
  The performance and independence of the company secretar
y or other professional providing corporate 
governance services should be evaluated at least annually by the governing body.
99.  The arrangements in place for accessing professional corporate governance services and a statement on 
whether the governing body believes those arrangements are ef
fective should be disclosed. 
KING IV CODE ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CONTINUEDWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
61
PART 5.4: GOVERNANCE FUNCTIONAL AREAS
Risk governance
RECOMMENDED PRACTICES 
1.  The governing body should assume responsibility for the gov ernance of risk by setting the direction for how 
risk should be approached and addressed in the organisation. Risk governance should encompass both: 
 a.  the opportunities and associated risks to be considered whe
n developing strategy; and 
 b.  the potential positive and negative effects of the same risks on the achievement of organisational objectives. 
2.  The governing body should treat risk as integral to the way it makes decisions and executes its duties. 
3
.  The governing body should approve policy that articulates and gives effect to its set direction on risk. 
4.  The governing body should evaluate and agree the nature an
d extent of the risks that the organisation should 
be willing to take in pursuit of its strategic objectives. It should approve in particular: 
 a.  the organisation’s risk appetite, namely its propensity to tak
e appropriate levels of risk; and 
 b.  the limit of the potential loss that the organisation has the capacity to tolerate. 
5.  The governing body should delegate to management the resp
onsibility to implement and execute effective risk 
management. 
6.  The governing body should exercise ongoing oversight of risk
 management and, in particular, oversee that it 
results in the following:
 a.  An assessment of risks and opportunities emanating from the triple context in which the organisation 
operates and the capitals that the organisation uses and affects.
 b.  An assessment of the potential upside, or opportunity, presented by risks with potentially negative effects 
on achieving organisational objectives.
 c.  An assessment of the organisation’s dependence on resources and relationships as represented by the 
various forms of
 capital.
 d.  The design and implementation of appropriate risk respons
es.
 e.  The establishment and implementation of business continui
ty arrangements that allow the organisation to 
operate under conditions of volatility, and to withstand and recover from acute shocks.
 f.  The integration and embedding of risk management in the b
usiness activities and culture of the 
organisation. 
7.  The governing body should consider the need to receive perio
dic independent assurance on the effectiveness 
of risk management. 
8.  The nature and extent of the risks and opportunities the organisation is willing to take should be disclosed 
without compromising sensitive information.
Principle 11: The governing body should govern risk in a way that supports the 
organisation in setting and achieving its strategic objectives.
Ethical  
culture
Good 
performance
Effective  
control
LegitimacyWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
62
© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
9.  In addition, the following should be disclosed in relation to risk :
 a.  An overview of the arrangements for governing and manag
ing risk.
 b.  Key areas of focus during the reporting period, including objectives, the key risks that the organisation 
faces, as well as undue, unexpected or unusual risks and risks taken outside of risk tolerance levels.
 c.  Actions taken to monitor the effectiveness of risk management and how the outcomes were addressed.
 d.  Planned areas of future focus.
Technology and information governance
RECOMMENDED PRACTICES
10.  The governing body should assume responsibility for the gov ernance of technology and information by setting 
the direction for how technology and information should be approached and addressed in the organisation.
11.  The governing body should approve policy that articulates an
d gives effect to its set direction on the 
employment of technology and information.
12.  The governing body should delegate to management the resp
onsibility to implement and execute effective 
technology and information management.
13.  The governing body should exercise ongoing oversight of tec
hnology and information management and, 
in particular, oversee that it results in the following: 
 a.  Integration of people, technologies, information and processes across the organisation. 
 b.  Integration of technology and information risks into organisa
tion-wide risk management.
 c.  Arrangements to provide for business resilience. 
 d.  Proactive monitoring of intelligence to identify and respond to incidents, including cyber attacks and 
adverse social media events.
 e.  Management of the performance of, and the risks pertaining to, third-party and outsourced service 
providers.
 f.  The assessment of value delivered to the organisation through significant investments in technology and 
information, including the evaluation of projects throughout their life cycles and of significant operational 
expenditure.
 g.  The responsible disposal of obsolete technology and inform
ation in a way that has regard to environmental 
impact and information security.
 h.  Ethical and responsible use of technology and information.
 i.  Compliance with relevant laws.
Principle 12: The governing body should govern technology and information in a 
way that supports the organisation setting and achieving its strategic objectives.
KING IV CODE ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CONTINUEDWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
63
14.  The governing body should exercise ongoing oversight of the  management of information and, in particular, 
oversee that it results in the following:
 a.  The leveraging of information to sustain and enhance the o
rganisation’s intellectual capital.
 b.  An information architecture that supports confidentiality, integrity and availability of information.
 c.  The protection of privacy of personal information.
 d.  The continual monitoring of security of information. 
15.  The governing body should exercise ongoing oversight of the
 management of technology and, in particular, 
oversee that it results in the following:
 a.  A technology architecture that enables the achievement of s
trategic and operational objectives. 
 b.  The management of the risks pertaining to the sourcing of technology
.
 c.  Monitoring and appropriate responses to developments in te
chnology, including the capturing of potential 
opportunities and the management of disruptive effects on the organisation and its business model.
16.  The governing body should consider the need to receive perio
dic independent assurance on the effectiveness 
of the organisation’s technology and information arrangements, including outsourced services.
17.  The following should be disclosed in relation to technology an
d information: 
 a.  An overview of the arrangements for governing and manag
ing technology and information. 
 b.  Key areas of focus during the reporting period, including objectives, significant changes in policy, 
significant acquisitions and remedial actions taken as a result of major incidents.
 c.  Actions taken to monitor the effectiveness of technology and information management and how the 
outcomes were
 addressed.
 d.  Planned areas of future focus.
Compliance governance
RECOMMENDED PRACTICES
18.  The governing body should assume responsibility for the gov ernance of compliance with applicable laws and 
adopted, non-binding rules, codes and standards by setting the direction for how compliance should be 
approached and addressed in the organisation. 
19.
  The governing body should approve policy that articulates an
d gives effect to its direction on compliance, and 
that identifies which non-binding rules, codes and standards the organisation has adopted.
Principle 13: The governing body should govern compliance with applicable laws 
and adopted, non-binding rules, codes and standards in a way that supports the 
organisation being ethical and a good corporate citizen.
Ethical  
culture
Good 
performance
Effective  
control
LegitimacyWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
64
© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
20.  The governing body should delegate to management respons ibility for implementation and execution of 
effective compliance management. 
21.  The governing body should exercise ongoing oversight of compliance and
, in par
ticular, oversee that it results in 
the following: 
 a.  Compliance being understood not only for the obligations it 
creates, but also for the rights and protections 
it affords.
 b.  Compliance management taking a holistic view of how appl
icable laws and non-binding rules, codes and 
standards relate to one another.
 c.  Continual monitoring of the regulatory environment and app
ropriate responses to changes and 
developments.
22.  The governing body should consider the need to receive perio
dic independent assurance on the effectiveness 
of compliance management.
23.  The following should be disclosed in relation to compliance:
 a.  An overview of the arrangements for governing and manag
ing compliance.
 b.  Key areas of focus during the reporting period.
 c.  Actions taken to monitor the effectiveness of compliance management and how the outcomes were 
addressed.
 d.  Planned areas of future focus.
24.  Material or repeated regulatory penalties, sanctions or fines fo
r contraventions of, or non-compliance with, 
statutory obligations, whether imposed on the organisation or on members of the governing body or officers 
should be disclosed.
25.
  Details of monitoring and compliance inspections by environmental regulators, findings of non-compliance with 
environmental laws, or criminal sanctions and prosecutions for such non-compliance should be disclosed.
Remuneration governance
RECOMMENDED PRACTICES
Remuneration policy
26.  The governing body should assume responsibility for the gov ernance of remuneration by setting the direction 
for how remuneration should be approached and addressed on an organisation-wide basis.
27.  The governing body should approve policy that articulates an
d gives effect to its direction on fair, responsible 
and transparent remuneration.
Principle 14: The governing body should ensure that the organisation remunerates 
fairly, responsibly and transparently so as to promote the achievement of strategic 
objectives and positive outcomes in the short, medium and long term.
KING IV CODE ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CONTINUEDWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
65
28.  The remuneration policy should be designed to achieve the fo llowing objectives: 
 a.  To attract, motivate, reward
 and retain human capital.
 b.  To promote the achievement of strategic objectives within th
e organisation’s risk appetite.
 c.  To promote positive outcomes.
 d.  To promote an ethical culture and responsible corporate citi
zenship. 
29.  The remuneration policy should address organisation-wide re
muneration and include provision for the 
following specifically:
 a.  Arrangements towards ensuring that the remuneration of executive management is fair and responsible in 
the context of overall employee remuneration in the organisation.
 b.  The use of performance measures that support positive outcomes across the economic, social and 
environmental context in which the organisation operates; and/or all the capitals that the organisation uses 
or af
fects.
 c.  If the organisation is a company, the voting by shareholders
 on the remuneration policy and 
implementation report, and for the implementation of related responding measures as outlined under 
Voting on Remuneration below.
30.  All elements of remuneration that are of
fered in the organisation and the mix of these should be set out in the 
remuneration policy, including: 
 a.  base salary, including financial and non-financial benefits; 
 b.  variable remuneration, including short and long-term incent
ives and deferrals;
 c.  payments on termination of employment or office; 
 d.  sign-on, retention and restraint payments;
 e.  the provisions, if any, for pre-vesting forfeiture (
malus) and post-vesting forfeiture (claw-back) of 
remuneration;
 f.  any commissions and allowances; and
 g.  the fees of non-executive members of the governing body. 
31.  The governing body should oversee that the implementation a
nd execution of the remuneration policy 
achieves the objectives of the policy.
Remuneration report
32.  The governing body should ensure that remuneration is disclo sed by means of a remuneration report in 
three parts: 
 a.  A background statement.
 b.  An overview of the main provisions of the remuneration policy
. 
 c.  An implementation report which contains details of all remu
neration awarded to individual members of the 
governing body and executive management during the reporting period.
Ethical  
culture
Good 
performance
Effective  
control
LegitimacyWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
66
© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
Background statement
33.  The background statement should briefly provide context for remuneration considerations and decisions, with 
reference to:
 a.  internal and external factors that influenced remuneration;
 b.  the most recent results of voting on the remuneration policy and the implementation report and the 
measures taken in response thereto;
 c.  key areas of focus and key decisions taken by the remuneration committee during the reporting period, 
including any substantial changes to the remuneration policy;
 d.  whether remuneration consultants have been used, and whether the remuneration committee is satisfied 
that they were independent and objective;
 e.  the views of the remuneration committee on whether the remuneration policy achieved its stated objectives; 
and
 f.  future areas of focus. 
Overview of remuneration policy
34.  The overview of the main provisions of the remuneration policy should address the objectives of the policy and 
the manner in which the policy seeks to accomplish these. 
The overview should include the following: 
 a.  The remuneration elements and design principles informing
 the remuneration arrangements for executive 
management and, at a high level, for other employees.
 b.  Details of any obligations in executive employment contracts which could give rise to payments on 
termination of employment or office.
 c.  A description of the framework and performance measures 
used to assess the achievement of strategic 
objectives and positive outcomes, including the relative weighting of each performance measure and the 
period of time over which it is
 measured. 
 d.  An illustration of the potential consequences on the total remuneration for executive management, on a 
single, total figure basis, of applying the remuneration policy under minimum, on-target and maximum 
performance outcomes.
 e.  An explanation of how the policy addresses fair and responsible remuneration for executive management 
in the context of overall employee remuneration.
 f.  The use and justification of remuneration benchmarks.
 g.  The basis for the setting of fees for non-executive directors.
 h.  A reference to an electronic link to the full remuneration pol
icy for public access.
KING IV CODE ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CONTINUEDWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
67
Implementation report
35.  The implementation report, which includes the remuneration disclosure in terms of the Companies Act, should 
reflect the following: 
 a.  The remuneration of each member of executive manageme
nt, which should include in separate tables:  
  i.  a single, total figure of remuneration, received and receivable for the reporting period, and all the 
remuneration elements that it comprises, each disclosed at fair value;   
 
 ii.  the details of all awards made under variable remuneration incentive schemes in the current and prior 
years 
that have not yet vested, including the number of awards; the values at date of grant; their award, 
vesting and expiry dates (where applicable); and the fair value at the end of the reporting period; and
  iii.  the cash value of all awards made under variable remuneration incentive schemes that were settled 
during the reporting period. 
 b.  An account of the performance measures used and the relative weighting of each, as a result of which 
awards under variable remuneration incentive schemes have been made, including: the targets set for the 
performance measures and the corresponding value of the award opportunity; and for each performance 
measure, how the organisation and executive managers, individually
, performed against the set targets.
 c.  Separate disclosure of, and reasons for
, any payments made on termination of employment or office.
 d.  A statement regarding compliance with, and any deviations
 from, the remuneration policy.
Voting on remuneration (only applicable to companies)
36.  In terms of the Companies Act, fees for non-executive directors for their services as directors must be 
submitted for approval by special resolution by shareholders within the two years preceding payment.
37.
  The remuneration policy and the implementation report shoul
d be tabled every year for separate non-binding 
advisory votes by shareholders at the AGM.
38.  The remuneration policy should record the measures that the
 board commits to take in the event that either 
the remuneration policy or the implementation report, or both have been voted against by 25% or more of the 
voting rights exercised. Such measures should provide for taking steps in good faith and with best reasonable 
effort towards the following at a minimum:
 a.  An engagement process to ascertain the reasons for the dissenting votes.
 b.  Appropriately addressing legitimate and reasonable objectio
ns and concerns raised, which may include 
amending the remuneration policy, or clarifying or adjusting remuneration governance and/or processes.
39.  In the event that either the remuneration policy or the implementation report, or both were voted against by 
25% or more of the voting rights exercised, the following should be disclosed in the background statement of 
the remuneration report succeeding the voting: 
 a.  with whom the company engaged, and the manner and form of engagement to ascertain the reasons for 
dissenting votes; and
 b.  the nature of steps taken to address legitimate and reasonable objections and concerns.
Ethical  
culture
Good 
performance
Effective  
control
LegitimacyWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
68
© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
Assurance
RECOMMENDED PRACTICES 
Combined assurance
40.  The governing body should assume responsibility for assuran ce by setting the direction concerning the 
arrangements for assurance services and functions. The governing body should delegate to the audit 
committee, if in place, the responsibility for overseeing that those arrangements are effective in achieving the 
following objectives: 
 a.  Enabling an effective internal control environment.
 b.  Supporting the integrity of information used for internal decision-making by management, the governing 
body and its
 committees.
 c.  Supporting the integrity of external reports.
41.  The governing body should satisfy itself that a combined assu
rance model is applied which incorporates and 
optimises the various assurance services and functions so that, taken as a whole, these support the objectives 
for assurance.
42.
  The governing body should oversee that the combined assura
nce model is designed and implemented to 
cover effectively the organisation’s significant risks and material matters through a combination of the following 
assurance service providers and functions as is appropriate for the organisation: 
 a.  The organisation’s line functions that own and manage risks
.
 b.  The organisation’s specialis
t functions that facilitate and oversee risk management and compliance. 
 c.  Internal auditors, internal forensic fraud examiners and auditors, safety and process assessors, and 
statutory actuaries.
 d.  Independent external assurance service providers such as external auditors.
 e.  Other external assurance providers such as sustainability and environmental auditors, external actuaries, 
and external forensic fraud examiners and auditors.
 f.  Regulatory inspectors.
43.  The governing body and its committees should assess the output of the organisation’s combined assurance with 
objectivity and professional skepticism, and by applying an enquiring mind, form their own opinion on the integrity
 
of information and reports, and the degree to which an effective control environment has been achieved.
Principle 15: The governing body should ensure that assurance services and 
functions enable an effective control environment, and that these support the 
integrity of information for internal decision-making and of the organisation’s 
external reports.
KING IV CODE ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CONTINUEDWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
69
Assurance of external reports 
44.  The governing body should assume responsibility for the inte grity of external reports issued by the 
organisation by setting the direction for how assurance of these should be approached and addressed.
45.  The governing body’s direction in this regard should take into
 account legal requirements in relation to 
assurance, with the following additional considerations:
 a.  Whether assurance should be applied to the underlying data used to prepare a report, or to the process for 
preparing and presenting a report, or both. 
 b.  Whether the nature, scope and extent of assurance are suited to the intended audience and purpose of 
a
 report.
 c.  The specification of applicable criteria for the measurement
 or evaluation of the underlying subject matter 
of the report.
46.  The governing body should satisfy itself that the combined assurance model is ef
fective and sufficiently robust 
for the governing body to be able to place reliance on the combined assurance underlying the statements that 
the governing body makes concerning the integrity of the organisation’s external reports.
47.
  External reports should disclose information about the type of
 assurance process applied to each report, in 
addition to the independent, external audit opinions provided in terms of legal requirements. This information 
should include:
 a.  a brief description of the nature, scope and extent of the assurance functions, services and processes 
underlying the preparation and presentation of the report; and 
 b.  a statement by the governing body on the integrity of the report and the basis for this statement, with 
reference to the assurance applied.
Refer to Part 5.3: Audit committee
 for recommended disclosures by the audit committee concerning the 
organisation’s application of combined assurance.
Internal audit
48.  The governing body should assume responsibility for internal  audit by setting the direction for the internal audit 
arrangements needed to provide objective and relevant assurance that contributes to the effectiveness of 
governance, risk management and control processes. The governing body should delegate oversight of 
internal audit to the audit committee, if in place.
49.
  The governing body should approve an internal audit charter 
that defines the role and associated 
responsibilities and authority of internal audit, including addressing its role within combined assurance and the 
internal audit standards to be adopted.
50.
  The governing body should ensure that the arrangements for
 internal audit provide for the necessary skills and 
resources to address the complexity and volume of risk faced by the organisation, and that internal audit is 
supplemented as required by specialist services such as those provided by forensic fraud examiners and 
auditors, safety and process assessors, and statutory actuaries.
51.
  If a chief audit executive (CAE) position is provided for in the arrangements for internal audit, the governing 
body should ensure that the position is set up to function independently from management who designs and 
implements the controls that are in place, and that the position carries the necessary authority. 
52.
  The governing body should approve the appointment of the C
AE, including the employment contract and 
remuneration of the CAE, and ensure that the person who fills the position has the necessary competence, 
gravitas and objectivity.
Ethical  
culture
Good 
performance
Effective  
control
LegitimacyWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
70
© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
53.  For reasons of independence, the CAE should have access to the chair of the audit committee.
54.  For reasons of independence, the CAE should not be a member of executive management, but should be 
invited to attend executive meetings, as necessary, to be informed about strategy and policy decisions and 
their implementation.
55.  Where internal audit services are co-sourced or outsourced, t
he governing body should ensure that there is 
clarity on who fulfils the role of CAE.
56.  The CAE should report to the chair of the audit committee on the performance of duties and functions that 
relate to internal audit. On other duties and administrative matters, the CAE should report to the member of 
executive management designated for this purpose as appropriate for the organisation.
57.
  The governing body should have primary responsibility for the
 removal of the CAE. 
58.  The governing body should monitor on an ongoing basis that 
internal audit: 
 a.  follows an approved risk-based internal audit plan; and 
 b.  reviews the organisational risk profile regularly, and propose
s adaptations to the internal audit plan 
accordingly.
59.  The governing body should ensure that internal audit provide
s an overall statement annually as to the 
effectiveness of the organisation’s governance, risk management and control processes.
60.  The governing body should ensure that an external, independ
ent quality review of the internal audit function is 
conducted at least once every five years.
61.  The governing body should obtain confirmation annually from
 the CAE that internal audit conforms to a 
recognised industry code of ethics.
Refer to Part 5.3: Audit committee for recommended disclosures by the audit committee concerning internal audit 
arrangements and the internal control environment.
KING IV CODE ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CONTINUEDWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
71
PART 5.5: STAKEHOLDER RELATIONSHIPS 
Stakeholders
RECOMMENDED PRACTICES
Stakeholder relationships
1.  The governing body should assume responsibility for the gov ernance of stakeholder relationships by setting 
the direction for how stakeholder relationships should be approached and conducted in the organisation. 
2.  The governing body should approve policy that articulates an
d gives effect to its direction on stakeholder 
relationships. 
3.  The governing body should delegate to management the resp
onsibility for implementation and execution of 
effective stakeholder relationship management.
4.  The governing body should exercise ongoing oversight of sta
keholder relationship management and, in 
particular, oversee that it results in the following: 
 a.  Methodologies for identifying individual stakeholders and st
akeholder groupings.
 b.  Determination of material stakeholders based on the extent to which they af
fect, or are affected by, the 
activities, outputs and outcomes of the organisation.
 c.  Management of stakeholder risk as an integral part of organ
isation-wide risk management.
 d.  Formal mechanisms for engagement and communication with stakeholders, including the use of dispute 
resolution mechanisms and associated processes.
 e.  Measurement of the quality of material stakeholder relationships, and appropriate responses to the 
outcomes. 
5.
  The following should be disclosed in relation to stakeholder re
lationships: 
 a.  An overview of the arrangements for governing and manag
ing stakeholder relationships.
 b.  Key areas of focus during the reporting period.
 c.  Actions taken to monitor the effectiveness of stakeholder management and how the outcomes were 
addressed.
 d.  Future areas of focus.
Ethical  
culture
Good 
performance
Effective  
control
Legitimacy
Principle 16: In the execution of its governance role and responsibilities, the 
governing body should adopt a stakeholder-inclusive approach that balances the 
needs, interests and expectations of material stakeholders in the best interests of 
the organisation over time. Website Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
72
© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
Shareholder relationships (Applicable to companies only)
6.  The board should oversee that the company encourages proa ctive engagement with shareholders, including 
engagement at the annual general meeting (AGM) of the company. 
7.  All directors should be available at the AGM to respond to shareholders’
 queries on how the board executed 
its governance duties.
8.  The board should ensure that the designated partner of the e
xternal audit firm attends the AGM.
9.  The board should ensure that shareholders are equitably trea
ted, and that the interests of minority 
shareholders are adequately protected. 
10.  The minutes of the AGMs of listed companies should be mad
e publicly available.
Relationships within a group of companies (Applicable to companies within a group) 
11.  The board of the holding company should assume responsibi lity for governance across the group by setting 
the direction for how the relationships and exercise of power within the group should be approached and 
conducted. 
12.  The board should approve a group governance framework th
at articulates and gives effect to its direction on 
relationships and the exercise of authority across the group. 
13.  The adoption and implementation of the policies, structures a
nd procedures of the holding company is a 
matter for consideration and approval by the board of the subsidiary company as a separate legal entity. The 
board of the holding company should therefore ensure that the boards of its subsidiaries are included in the 
development of the group governance framework. 
14.
  The board of the holding company should ensure that the gro
up governance framework does not conflict with 
the memoranda of incorporation, delegations of authority, shareholder agreements, board charters, board 
committee terms of reference, and related policies and agreements within the group.
15.
  The board of the holding company should ensure that the gro
up governance framework recognises each 
subsidiary within the group as a separate and independent juristic person to whom its directors owe fiduciary 
duties.
16.
  The board of the holding company should ensure that the gro
up governance framework addresses 
governance matters as is appropriate for the group, including the following: 
 a.  Delineation of the rights and role of the holding company. 
 b.  If applicable, delegation of certain responsibilities by the bo
ard of a subsidiary to a board committee of the 
holding company, without abdicating accountability, and subject to agreed reporting and information-
sharing arrangements. 
 c.  The extent to which governance and operational policies of the holding company have been adopted by 
subsidiary companies in the group. 
 d.  Engagement by the holding company with the board of a su
bsidiary company before the holding company 
exercises its rights to elect directors to the board of the subsidiary.
 e.  Arrangements to address the risk of breaching legal duty in relation to the use of information obtained 
while acting as director of one company in the group for the purposes of another company in the group.
KING IV CODE ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CONTINUEDWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
73
17.  The board of the holding company should ensure that the agr eed group governance framework is 
implemented across the group.
18.  The holding company should disclose an overview of the grou
p governance framework that is implemented 
across the group.
19.  The subsidiary company should disclose what responsibilities
 it has delegated to board committees of the 
holding company and the extent to which it has adopted the policies and procedures of the holding company.
Responsibilities of institutional investors
Ethical  
culture
Good 
performance
Effective  
control
Legitimacy
Principle 17: The governing body of an institutional investor organisation should 
ensure that responsible investment is practiced by the organisation to promote the 
good governance and the creation of value by the companies in which it invests.
RECOMMENDED PRACTICES
20.  The governing body of an institutional investor should assume  responsibility for governing responsible 
investing by setting the direction for how it should be approached and conducted by the organisation.
21.  The governing body should approve policy that articulates its 
direction on responsible investment. This policy 
should provide for the adoption of a recognised responsible investment code, principles and practices. 
22.  The governing body should delegate to management, if in pla
ce, or alternatively, to the outsourced service 
provider if investment decisions and investment activities are outsourced, the responsibility to implement and 
execute its policy on responsible investment. 
23.  Where the institutional investor outsources investment decisions or investment activities to custodians, 
nominees, consultants or other service providers, the governing body should oversee that the outsourcing is 
regulated by formal mandate which reflects and gives ef
fect to its responsible investment policy.
24.  The governing body should ensure that service providers are
 held accountable for complying with the formal 
mandate.
25.  The responsible investment code adopted by the institutional 
investor and the application of its principles and 
practices should be disclosed. Website Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
74
© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
PART 6
SECTOR SUPPLEMENTS
Part 6.1: Introduction to sector supplements 
Part 6.2: Supplement for municipalities
Part 6.3: Supplement for non-profit organisations 
Part 6.4: Supplement for retirement funds 
Part 6.5: Supplement for small and medium enterprises
Part 6.6: Supplement for state-owned entitiesWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
75
PART 6.1: INTRODUCTION TO SECTOR 
SUPPLEMENTS 
How to use the supplements
The supplements should be read together with the balance of the King IV Report, particularly Part 1:  
Glossary of Terms, Part 2: Fundamental Concepts, Part 3: King IV Application and Disclosure and Part 5:  
King IV Code on Corporate Governance. Exactly how this should be done is explained below, but the following  
is a quick guide:
All 
governance outcomes as per the Code apply.
All principles as per the Code apply, with the necessary adaptation of terminology as explained in each 
supplement. 
The recommended practices in the Code should be considered together with the specific recommendations 
contained in each supplement and industry or sector codes and guidance issued by professional and 
industry bodies and regulators. Implementation of practices is subject to applicable legislation and scaling for 
proportional application as is appropriate for the organisation.
Reference should be made to the King IV Implementation Roadmap outlined below. 
In keeping with the balance of the King IV Report, the supplements are primarily aimed at the governing body
, it 
being the focal point of corporate governance within the organisation.
In these supplements, “corporate” refers to organisations that are incorporated to form legal entities separate from 
their founders. It therefore does not apply only to companies or for-profit enterprises, but all forms of incorporation 
whether as company, voluntary association, retirement fund, trust, legislated entity or others. The term “corporate 
governance” is used to differentiate it from other forms of governance, for example national or political 
governance.
Purpose of the supplements
The purpose of the supplements is to provide high-level guidance and direction on how the King IV Code should 
be interpreted and applied by a variety of sectors and organisational types. 
SUPPLEMENTS FOR SPECIFIC SECTORS AND CATEGORIES OF ORGANISATION
The King IV Report does not include supplements for all sectors and categories of organisations. It was decided 
to issue supplements that were representative of a wide range of sectors and categories of organisations. Those 
sectors and categories of organisations for which specific supplements are not provided should consider the 
particular supplement which is most closely aligned to their organisational structure. 
High-level guidance on interpretation and application of King IV
The supplements illustrate how the King IV Code should be interpreted and applied in various contexts, situations 
and legislative regimes. Due to the wide variety of such, and the numerous governance challenges that may 
present themselves as a result, it is not possible to cover all in the supplements. Furthermore, an attempt to do so 
would be contrary to the normative rather than prescriptive approach of King IV. 
SECTOR SUPPLEMENTS
Ethical  
culture
Good 
performance
Effective  
control
LegitimacyWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
76
© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
Instead of addressing all the potential variables, the supplements are intended to demonstrate how the Code 
should be interpreted and applied in a number of representative contexts, situations and legislative regimes. It is 
hoped that these demonstrations will enable those charged with governance duties to adapt the practices to their 
particular governance challenges – including those challenges not addressed in the supplements – while still 
giving effect to the aspirations expressed in the principles. The examples in the supplements are designed to 
demonstrate the manner in which governing bodies should apply their minds to King IV and do not replace the 
exercise of judgement by providing detailed solutions for all situations.
Certain aspects of King IV are emphasised in particular supplements for their relevance to a specific sector. It 
would be inaccurate to conclude that those aspects in the King IV Code that are not dealt with or not referred to 
specifically in the supplements, need not be considered.
Reconciling King IV to legislation
Applicable legislation sets the minimum governance standards to be complied with. If King IV sets the bar higher, 
organisations should strive to achieve the higher aspiration in the interest of sound governance. If there is a 
conflict between the legislation and King IV, the legislation prevails. However, the mere fact that King IV advocates 
a higher standard of governance than the legislation demands, does not, in itself, necessarily constitute a conflict. 
A conflict only arises when King IV and legislated provisions cannot be reconciled, not when they are merely 
different. Therefore, implementing a higher standard than that required by law will still be compliant with the 
minimum requirements of the law. 
The diagram below depicts the framework for governance of organisations: 
SECTOR SUPPLEMENTS  
CONTINUED
1. Applicable legislation sets the minimum 
standards to be complied with. If King IV sets 
the bar higher, organisations should strive to 
achieve the higher aspiration in the interest of 
sound governance. If there is a conflict between 
the legislation and King IV, the legislation 
prevails.
3. King IV practices should be adapted 
to meet the challenges of sectoral contexts, 
situations and legislative regimes. The King IV 
supplements together with industry or sector 
codes and guidance explain how this is to be 
done.
2. King IV principles are phrased so that they 
hold true across all organisations. The 
principles are the embodiment of the aspirations 
in the journey towards good corporate 
governance. They guide on what organisations 
should strive to achieve by the application of 
governance practices. 
1
2
3Website Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
77
In certain instances, references to particular acts, sections of acts and regulations are included in the 
supplements to demonstrate the linkage and alignment between the principles and recommendations of King IV 
and legislation, albeit that different terminology or wording is used. King IV seeks to promote and give substance 
and effect to legislation, and it should be interpreted in this light. 
Proportional application
Even within the same sector, organisations vary largely in size, resources, and extent and complexity of activities. 
Appreciating this is important when interpreting King IV in order to apply it. 
The following examples illustrate how recommended practices could be scaled in accordance with proportionality 
considerations: 
Where it is recommended in the Code that certain functions should be established – for example finance, risk, 
technology and information, compliance or internal audit functions – such functions could consist of a senior 
employee instead of a team of people. If proportionality considerations warrant it, further scaling could be 
achieved by allocating part-time responsibility for the function to such an employee. Outsourcing of functions is 
another alternative and so is sharing functions and resources with affiliated organisations.
A recommendation that a committee of the governing body should be formed could, if justified by proportionality 
considerations, be replaced by having the governing body carrying out the functions normally fulfilled by such 
committee. Alternatively, the governing body could formally delegate, without abdicating accountability, to one of 
its members to investigate, consider and prepare submissions for recommendation and consideration by the full 
governing body.
Where the Code recommends that a formal policy be established, it could be accomplished by formalising in 
writing a few guiding criteria and processes, and by continually developing the document as learning evolves. The 
benefits of being intentional and devoting the necessary consideration to putting policies and structures in place 
should not be underestimated. Doing so clarifies intention and ensures alignment among those affected by the 
policy on the nature and extent of responsibilities, functions and authority delegated.
Proportional application of the practices should still give effect to the principles. Refer to Part 3: King IV 
Application and Disclosure for more guidance on proportionality.
Ethical  
culture
Good 
performance
Effective  
control
LegitimacyWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
78
© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
King IV implementation roadmap
SECTOR SUPPLEMENTS  
CONTINUED
Map applicable legal provisions 
that pertain to the duties of those 
charged with governance to the 
relevant King IV principles and 
their associated practices.
Identify the legal provisions that 
cannot be reconciled with the 
specific King IV practices.  
Note these legal provisions as  
the point of departure for the  
development of the organisation’s 
governance practices.
Consider the remaining King IV 
practices in conjunction with  
(i) the illustrations in the 
supplement, (ii) industry or sector 
codes and guidance, and (iii) 
proportionality considerations, 
to develop a set of organisation-
specific governance practices. 
This consideration should set 
out to achieve the aspirations as 
expressed in the principles.
Implement and apply King IV 
in accordance with the organi-
sation-specific governance 
practices as developed, and 
as ultimately approved by the 
governing body.
Assess the outcomes of the 
implementation of King IV on a 
qualitative basis by the measure 
of achievement of the aspirations 
as per the principles and the  
realisation of the governance  
outcomes. Take the necessary 
steps for enhancement of  
practices, if and where necessary.Website Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
79
PART 6.2: SUPPLEMENT FOR MUNICIPALITIES 
The supplements should be read together with the balance of the King IV Report, particularly Part 1:  
Glossary of Terms, Part 2: Fundamental Concepts, Part 3: King IV Application and Disclosure and Part 5:  
King IV Code on Corporate Governance.
Municipalities: the macro view and benefits of  
corporate governance
The structural and institutional arrangements are different for the different types of municipalities – metropolitan, 
district and local municipalities. The common feature is that they are accountable to the communities they serve. 
In
 terms of section 152(1) of the Constitution, the objectives of local government (which consists of municipalities) are:
• to provide democratic and accountable government for local communities;
• to ensure the provision of services to communities in a sustainable manner;
• to promote social and economic development;
• to promote a safe and healthy environment; and 
• to encourage the involvement of communities and community organisations in the matters of local government.
Section 153 of the Constitution furthermore refers to the developmental duties of municipalities. Thus, 
municipalities provide a foundation for our democracy; the efficiency with which they deliver services is the basis 
for economic and social cohesion in the context of a developmental state.
Good governance is essential to ensure the success of the municipality itself, and to protect and advance the 
interests of those whom it serves. Good corporate governance assists by enhancing the functioning of leadership 
structures, and by providing the arrangements which enable the council to govern the municipality in such a way 
that it is able to meet its objectives.
Scope
This supplement applies to category A, B and C municipalities as provided for in the Municipal Structures Act. 
Even within the same sector, organisations vary largely in size, resources, and extent and complexity of activities. 
The scope of this supplement was, therefore, limited for the sake of clarity. An attempt to address too wide a 
range of variables may defeat the intent of the supplement, namely to demonstrate how the practices in the Code 
should be interpreted and applied in a number of representative contexts, situations and legislative regimes. 
Municipalities falling outside the scope of this supplement should still align with the principles and consider the 
practices while adapting them along the approach as demonstrated in this supplement. Refer to Part 6.1: 
Introduction to Sector Supplements for the King IV Implementation Roadmap to assist with this. 
Ethical  
culture
Good 
performance
Effective  
control
LegitimacyWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
80
© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
King IV and municipalities 
TERMINOLOGY
In order to apply the King IV Code to municipalities without having to repeat it in its entirety, it is necessary to 
explain how the terminology used in the Code could be substituted for terminology applicable to municipalities. 
Although leadership structures in municipalities are not directly comparable to those of other organisations, the 
following guidelines can be used when interpreting the terminology in the King IV Code in a municipal context:
Term used in the King IV Code Relevant term for municipalities
Organisation Municipality
Governing body Municipal council
Management Management of the municipality, including the 
municipal manager as accounting officer and senior 
management as defined in the Municipal Finance 
Management Act (MFMA).
Members of the governing body Councillors 
Chair of the governing body Speaker
Chief executive officer Municipal manager or accounting officer
External auditor Auditor-General of South Africa (Auditor-General)
Shareholder Municipalities do not have shareholders, but in many 
respects, community members can be regarded as 
such. 
The office of mayor or executive mayor of a municipality does not have an equivalent in the King IV Code. 
However, this does not suggest that the mayor or executive mayor of a municipality does not fulfil a governance 
function in a municipality. In respect of these politically elected positions, the Municipal Structures Act, MFMA and 
other pertinent legislation must be followed. 
BACKGROUND
Municipalities are autonomous, but operate within a system of cooperative governance in terms of the 
Constitution. Cooperative governance requires that the various spheres of government (national, provincial and 
local) cooperate in exercising their powers and performing their functions. The governance of municipalities 
should be viewed in the context of cooperative governance without detracting from municipal autonomy.
KING IV PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICES
The essence of the King IV Code, as represented by its governance outcomes and principles, applies to 
municipalities with the necessary adaptation in terminology. Principles are repeated below for ease of reference.
SECTOR SUPPLEMENTS  
CONTINUEDWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
81
Ethical  
culture
Good 
performance
Effective  
control
Legitimacy
Principle 1: The council should lead ethically and effectively.
Principle 2: The council should govern the ethics of the municipality in a way that 
supports the establishment of an ethical culture.
Principle 3: The council should ensure that the municipality is and is seen to be a 
responsible corporate citizen.
Principle 4: The council should appreciate that the municipality’s core purpose, its 
risks and opportunities, strategy, business model, performance and sustainable 
development are all inseparable elements of the value creation process.
Ethical and effective leadership is exemplified by integrity, competence, responsibility, accountability, fairness and 
transparency. Members of the council should individually and collectively cultivate these characteristics and 
exhibit them in their conduct, as set out in the practices under Principle 1. This is congruent with section 195 of 
the Constitution, in terms of which public administration must be governed by the democratic values and 
principles enshrined in the Constitution, including that a high standard of professional ethics must be promoted 
and maintained. Section 50 of the Municipal Systems Act echoes this and a Code of Conduct for Councillors is 
included in Schedule 1 of that act. Schedule 5 of the Municipal Structures Act similarly includes a Code of 
Conduct for Councillors. The practices associated with Principle 1 should be considered to supplement and 
provide substance to these legal provisions.
In addition to assuming responsibility for their own character and conduct, in accordance with Principle 2, 
municipal councils should govern the ethics of the municipality. Schedule 2 of the Municipal Systems Act contains 
a Code of Conduct for Municipal Staff Members. The recommended practices under Principle 2 provide useful 
guidance on how to ensure and oversee adherence to this code and the ethics of the municipality, generally.
Corporate citizenship is an alternative expression of the objectives of the municipality as set out in section 152(1) 
of the Constitution (see above). Therefore, the recommended practices under Principle 3 apply with the necessary 
adaptation to municipalities as a means to give effect to these objectives.
The practices recommended under Principle 4 address the development and approval of the organisation’s 
strategy, implementation thereof and organisational performance. For municipalities, strategy-development and 
performance-management processes are largely legislated and the practices in King IV should therefore be 
modified accordingly.Website Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
82
© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
Reports issued by the municipality are a means of communicating with its community. Reports that are 
underpinned by integrated thinking and that present information about the resources and relationships on which 
the municipality relies, its activities, outputs and outcomes in an integrated manner, are an effective way of 
informing the community and other stakeholders about the municipality’s performance. It also demonstrates 
accountability. 
The role of the council with regards to reporting by the municipality is prescribed by legislation. The recommended 
practices under Principle 5 should be considered by the council, and adapted as is necessary to reconcile with 
legal provisions, so as to assist with executing its reporting duties. 
SECTOR SUPPLEMENTS  
CONTINUED
Principle 5: The council should ensure that reports issued by the municipality 
enable stakeholders to make informed assessments of the municipality’s 
performance and its short, medium and long-term prospects.
Principle 6: The council should serve as the focal point and custodian of corporate 
governance in the municipality.
The council should serve as the focal point of corporate governance as provided for in Principle 6. In accordance 
with the Municipal Systems Act, a municipality is “an organ of state within the local sphere of government 
exercising legislative and executive authority within an area”. In terms of section 151 of the Constitution, both 
legislative and executive authority vest in the council. 
The legislative and executive authority that the council derives from the Constitution and other legislation, gives it 
dominium over the taxes and levies collected from those who reside within the borders of the municipality for the 
supply of electricity, water, sanitation, refuse removal and other services. Also, municipal elections are a means by 
which citizens nominate representatives, giving them the power to make decisions and execute them on their 
behalf. Therefore, even though the MFMA ascribes fiduciary duties to the municipal manager as accounting 
officer, the
 council shares in these fiduciary duties by virtue of its constitutional role.
Under Principle 6, the primary leadership role of any governing body is expressed as encompassing the following:
 a. steering the organisation and setting its strategic direction;
 b. approving policy and planning that give ef
fect to the direction provided;
 c. overseeing and monitoring of implementation and execution
 by management; and
 d.  ensuring accountability for organisational performance by m
eans of, among others, reporting and 
disclosure.
It should be noted that the terminology used under this principle, namely strategy leading to policymaking, is 
usually used in the reverse in a government setting with policy directives leading to strategic initiatives and plans. 
Notwithstanding, and even though the Constitution, MFMA, Municipal Structures Act and Municipal Systems Act 
all allocate specific responsibilities to the council, the above is a useful framework for the council to attain an 
overarching understanding of its role. It should be used as a standing reference point by the council when 
discharging its responsibilities in any area of governance.Website Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
83
Summary of recommended 
practices for the council’s 
access to the appropriate 
balance of knowledge, skills, 
experience, diversity and 
independence:
•
 Political parties should 
deploy councillors with 
the
 necessary skills and 
competency. 
• Council should ensure 
in-depth induction for 
councillors.
•
 Council should ensure the 
establishement of 
professional education 
programmes.
•
 Council should make use of 
external expertise on specific 
matters outside the 
knowledge, skills and 
experience of councillors, 
when required.
Ethical  
culture
Good 
performance
Effective  
control
Legitimacy
Principle 7: The council should comprise the appropriate balance of knowledge, 
skills, experience, diversity and independence for it to discharge its governance 
role and responsibilities objectively and effectively.
Knowledge, skills, experience and diversity of councillors
Principle 7 deals with the criteria for the composition of the governing 
body. In a municipality, a mixed electoral system is followed for the 
election of councillors in terms of which, depending on the category 
of
 municipality, about half of the councillors are elected through a 
proportional representation ballot where voters vote for a party
. 
The other half are elected as ward councillors by the residents in each 
ward. The composition of councils can therefore, not be proactively 
planned by means of a nomination process on the basis of the 
knowledge, skills, experience, diversity and independence required, 
as
 dealt with in the recommended practices under Principle 7. 
Even though the legislated provisions pertaining to election of council 
members prevail over the King IV recommended practices for n
omination, 
election and appointment, the council should still strive towards the 
aspiration expressed in this principle, as its composition is a key factor 
driving the performance of a municipality. Political parties can assist with 
the achievement of this aspiration by
 deploying councillors with the 
necessary knowledge, skills, experience and diversity.
There should also be a strong emphasis on in-depth induction for newly 
elected councillors at the start of a new political term in the interest of 
bolstering knowledge on the council. 
The council should furthermore 
ensure that a continued and robust professional education programme 
for councillors is established, which runs for the full term of office to 
ensure the building of competence. 
Employing external expertise as recommended in the practices under 
Principle 7 will further assist the council with its oversight duties in the 
event that objective input on specific matters outside the knowledge, 
skills and experience of councillors is
 required.
Independence of councillors
Independence of the members of the governing body is dealt with under Principle 7. Municipal councillors are 
elected to represent local communities on the council, but they may have party political affiliations which result in 
them not being independent in appearance. However, as a matter of law, all councillors must exercise objective 
judgement when executing their legal duties in the best interests of the municipality and its community. 
This is reinforced in the Code of Conduct for Councillors in Schedule 1 of the Municipal Systems Act. The constitutional 
integrity of the council as a collective body acting at all times in the best interests of the municipality and the community 
it serves, enjoys priority over the interests of individual councillors. 
Speaker
There is no independent chair of council as provided for in the Code. The role of chair is fulfilled by the speaker. 
It is recommended that the practices under Principle 7 in relation to the chair be considered for how they could 
supplement the legislated role of the speaker.Website Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
84
© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
SECTOR SUPPLEMENTS  
CONTINUED
1  Municipal Public Accounts Committee, “Enhancing Oversight in the Municipality Practical Guide”, SALGA and National T reasury, March 2012. Also refer to 
section 129(4) of the MFMA.
The Municipal Systems Act provides in section 59 that the council must “develop a system of delegation that will 
maximise administrative and operational efficiency and provide for adequate checks and balances”. The Municipal 
Systems Act prescribes a wide range of powers and functions that may or may not be delegated. Councils may 
only delegate authority if they are expressly or by implication authorised to do so by law. The recommended 
practices under Principles 8 and 10 should be considered subject to these legal provisions. 
In terms of section 79 of the Municipal Structures Act, the council is entitled to set up committees such as 
Municipal Public Accounts Committees
1 to assist with general oversight of the municipality’s performance. 
This aligns with the practices recommended under Principle 8 of the Code, which address delegation by the 
council within its own structures. 
The audit committee’s duties as regards to the appointment and independence of the auditor
, as set out in the 
recommended practices under this principle, apply differently in municipalities as the Auditor-General serves as 
the external auditor for a municipality. Furthermore, the structure and functions of the municipal audit committee 
are prescribed by legislation and prevail over the recommended practices in the Code. However, in so far as the 
legislation allows, the Code’s recommended practices in
 respect of the execution of the duties of the audit 
committee should be considered to supplement the minimum standard set by law. 
Principle 8: The council should ensure that its arrangements for delegation within 
its own structures promote independent judgement, and assist with balance of 
power and the effective discharge of its duties.
Principle 9: The council should ensure that the evaluation of its own performance 
and that of its committees, its speaker and its individual councillors, support 
continued improvement in its performance and effectiveness.
The evaluation of the performance of the governing body, its members and committees as addressed by Principle 9 
and its associated practices, applies to municipalities. In respect of council members who are deployed by political 
parties, it is recommended that the council and political parties collaborate on the manner and form in which the 
performance of the council and councillors should be assessed. 
The results of the performance evaluations should 
be responded to by the council so as to achieve continued improvement in its performance and effectiveness as per 
the principle.Website Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
85
Ethical  
culture
Good 
performance
Effective  
control
Legitimacy
Principle 10: The council should ensure that the appointment of, and delegation 
to, management contribute to role clarity and the effective exercise of authority 
and responsibilities.
Principle 11: The council should govern risk in a way that supports the municipality 
in setting and achieving its strategic objectives.
Principle 12: The council should govern technology and information in a way that 
supports the municipality setting and achieving its strategic objectives.
Principle 13: The council should govern compliance with applicable laws and 
adopted, non-binding rules, codes and standards in a way that supports the 
municipality being ethical and a good corporate citizen.
Principle 14: The council should ensure that the municipality remunerates fairly, 
responsibly and transparently so as to promote the achievement of strategic 
objectives and positive outcomes in the short, medium and long term.
In accordance with Principle 10 and also section 82 of the Municipal Structures Act, the council should appoint the 
municipal manager. The regulations for performance management and minimum competency levels of municipal 
managers should be taken into account in this regard. It is in the interest of the council to ensure that it appoints 
competent municipal management, so that it is able to place reasonable reliance for its decision-making on any 
information, opinions, recommendations, reports or statements presented by management.
Under Principle 10, it is furthermore recommended that the council should ensure that it has access to 
professional and independent guidance on corporate governance and its legal duties, and also that it has support 
to coordinate the functioning of the council and its committees. For companies, this role is fulfilled by the company 
secretary. As a matter of leading practice, it is recommended that municipal councils appoint a suitably 
experienced professional to provide these services. Website Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
86
© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
SECTOR SUPPLEMENTS  
CONTINUED
Principle 15: The council should ensure that assurance services and functions 
enable an effective control environment, and that these support the integrity of 
information for internal decision-making and of the municipality’s external reports.
Principle 16: In the execution of its governance role and responsibilities, the 
council should adopt a stakeholder-inclusive approach that balances the needs, 
interests and expectations of material stakeholders in the best interests of the 
municipality over time.
The recommended practices under Principles 11 to 15, which deal with specific governance functional areas, 
should be interpreted and applied in conjunction with industry or sector codes and guidance, applicable legislation 
and proportionality considerations.Stakeholders
The primary stakeholder of a municipality is its community. In terms of section 2 of the Municipal Systems Act, a 
municipality consists of a community, a council and an administration. Therefore, communities must be involved, 
and community engagement should go beyond one-way communication from the municipality to its community. 
Other stakeholders include community organisations, political parties active in the municipality, national and 
provincial departments and industry and sector bodies. The practice recommendations under Principle 16 are 
applicable to give effect to the duties of the council in relation to governing stakeholder relationships. 
In alignment with government initiatives already under way, it is recommended that municipal councils proactively 
set up reviews of municipal service delivery by the citizenry, as a way of monitoring and evaluating municipal 
performance. 
Municipal entities as stakeholders of municipalities
In keeping with Principle 16, the council is legally obliged to oversee the performance of administration and 
executive organs of the municipality, including the municipal entities (MEs). MEs should be managed as a 
material stakeholder grouping. The council should ensure that the business plan of the ME, developed in terms of 
section 87 of the MFMA, the municipal mandate and the Integrated Development Plan are all aligned. Integrating 
the strategy plan and execution thereof between the municipality and the MEs, ensures that the MEs operate 
within the mandate, powers and functions assigned and agreed with the municipality. A
 governance framework, 
broadly based on the recommended practices for group companies under Principle 16, is useful and should be 
considered by municipal councils to govern their relationship with the MEs. 
(Note that Principle 17 does not apply to municipalities.)Website Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
87
PART 6.3: SUPPLEMENT FOR NON-PROFIT 
ORGANISATIONS 
The supplements should be read together with the balance of the King IV Report, particularly Part 1:  
Glossary of Terms, Part 2: Fundamental Concepts, Part 3: King IV Application and Disclosure and Part 5:  
King IV Code on Corporate Governance.
NPOs: the macro view and benefits of corporate governance
Taking into account the critical role non-profit organisations (NPOs) fulfil, it is in the interest of the whole of society 
that this sector should thrive. This role is articulated as follows by the World Bank: 
•
 providing goods and services – especially meeting needs which have not hitherto been met by either the state 
or by the private sector;
• assisting the government to achieve its development objectives – in particular through contributing skills for 
which NPOs have comparative advantage, such as public information, education and communications 
campaigns, or providing information about the situations and needs of particularly vulnerable groups;
•
 helping citizens to voice their aspirations, concerns and alternatives for consideration by policy makers, thereby 
giving substance to governments’ policies regarding freedoms of association and speech;
•
 helping to enhance the accountability and transparency of government and local government programmes and 
of officials.
1   
Good corporate governance contributes to the success of an NPO as it enhances the functioning of its 
leadership structures and provides the arrangements by which the governing body should govern the NPO so 
that it is able to meet its strategic objectives. The particular benefits that could be derived from the good 
governance of an NPO include the following:
•
 Added credibility and enhanced reputation. 
• Increased impact of activities and advocacy through stronger stakeholder relationships and more effective 
operational processes.
• Access to funding, grants and loans on better terms.
• The ability to leverage a wider pool of expertise for employment and volunteer work. 
• Better fraud prevention due to improved controls.
• Business continuity arrangements that permit the NPO to operate under conditions of volatility, and to 
withstand and recover from acute shocks.
•
 Leadership continuity through succession planning.
1  World Bank, “The Role of Non-profit organizations in Development: The experience of the World Bank”, The World Bank, available at  
http://web.worldbank.org/WBSITE/EXTERNAL/TOPICS/EXTSOCIALDEVELOPMENT/
EXTPCENG/0,,contentMDK:20507529~menuPK:1278313~pagePK:148956~piPK:216618~theSitePK:410306,00.htmll
Ethical  
culture
Good 
performance
Effective  
control
LegitimacyWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
88
© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
Scope 
An NPO can be incorporated in various forms, including as a non-profit company, charitable trust, voluntary 
association, club or fund. NPOs may also be referred to as non-governmental organisations (NGOs) or as Public 
Benefit Organisations (PBOs) – the latter refers to the tax exempt status of certain activities of organisations 
granted by 
the South African Revenue Service and not their form of incorporation, although for-profit organisations 
do not qualify for this status. The term “social enterprises” describes organisations that fulfil social or 
environmental needs. They could be set up as for-profit entities that operate as private companies, sole 
proprietorships, business trusts or partnerships.
2
This supplement addresses non-profit legal forms, but is not limited to organisations that have been granted NPO 
status in terms of the Non-Profit Organisations Act. It thus applies to NGOs, PBOs and other NPOs, but would 
exclude social enterprises that follow a for-profit business model. 
King IV and NPOs
TERMINOLOGY
In order to apply the King IV Code to NPOs without having to repeat it in its entirety, it is necessary to explain how 
the terminology used in the Code could be interchanged for terminology applicable to NPOs. 
Term used in the King IV Code Relevant term for NPOs
Organisation A board, commission, company, corporation, fund, 
trust, voluntary association, or other term that would be 
applicable.
Governing body Board or other term that would be applicable.
Shareholder Member of an NPO incorporated as a non-profit 
company with members, or member of a voluntary 
association and also a donor as the provider of 
financial capital to the NPO. If
 donor funding is 
provided once-off, 
ad hoc or anonymously and no 
continuing relationship exists, references to 
shareholders do not apply to this category of funders.
In this supplement, the collective nouns “NPO” or “organisation” are used interchangeably. The supplement also 
refers generically to “governing body” and “member of the governing body”.
KING IV PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICES
The essence of King IV, as represented by its governance outcomes and principles, applies to NPOs with the 
necessary adaptation in terminology. Principles are repeated below for ease of reference.
2  Bertha Institute of Social Innovation and Entrepreneurship, A Guide to Legal Forms for Social Enterprises in South Africa  (2015), p 5, available at  
http://www.gsb.uct.ac.za/files/BerthaCentreGuideLegalFormsSocialEnterprisesSouthAfrica.pdf
SECTOR SUPPLEMENTS  
CONTINUEDWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
89
Ethical  
culture
Good 
performance
Effective  
control
Legitimacy
Principle 1: The governing body should lead ethically and effectively.
Principle 2: The governing body should govern the ethics of the organisation in a 
way that supports the establishment of an ethical culture.
Principle 3: The governing body should ensure that the o
rganisation is and is seen 
to be a responsible corporate citizen.
Ethical and effective leadership is exemplified by integrity, competence, responsibility, accountability, fairness and 
transparency. Members of the governing body should individually and collectively cultivate these characteristics 
and exhibit them in their conduct as set out in the practices under Principle 1. 
Included in the ethical duties of the governing body are its legal duties. The fiduciary duties of the members of the 
governing body of an NPO are, as a matter of law, owed to the organisation itself and not the party or 
constituency by which the member is appointed. These legal duties stand regardless of whether members of the 
governing body of an NPO act pro bono or for a minimum fee. 
A governing body whose members are appointed as representatives of constituents, donors or other stakeholders 
of the NPO should be especially proactive in managing potential and actual conflicts. These conflicts usually 
manifest in the entanglement of the private and professional interests of an individual. Examples of typical 
conflicts in an NPO environment include community members, being the beneficiaries of the outputs of the 
organisation’s efforts, also serving on the NPO’s executive or governance structures; and the appointment of 
relatives and friends as employees or paid consultants or suppliers. The
 following practice under Principle 1 
should be implemented in this regard: “Members of the governing body should avoid conflicts of interest. In cases 
where a conflict cannot be avoided it, should be disclosed to the governing body in full at the earliest opportunity, 
and then proactively managed as determined by the governing body and subject to legal provisions.” 
In addition to assuming responsibility for its own character and conduct, in accordance with Principle 2, the 
governing body should govern the ethics of the NPO. The practices associated with this principle guide on how 
the governing body should discharge this responsibility
.
By virtue of advocating for and fulfilling social and environmental needs, acting as a collective voice and holding 
others responsible, NPOs are an integral part of the societal dynamic. NPOs are thus corporate citizens and 
should apply the recommended practices pertaining to responsible corporate citizenship under Principle 3. Website Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
90
© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
3  Adapted from: Department of Social Development, Codes of Good Practice for South African Non-profit Organisations (2001), p 7; available at  
http://www
.dsd.gov.za/npo/index.php?option=com_docman&task=cat_view&gid=20&Itemid=116
SECTOR SUPPLEMENTS  
CONTINUED
The practices recommended under Principle 4 address the development and approval of the organisation’s 
strategy, implementation thereof and organisational performance.
The governing body of an NPO should balance its priorities so as to both remain financially viable and deliver on 
environmental or social objectives as per its constitution. This accords with King IV’s assertion that performance 
encompasses the triple context of the economy, society and the environment in which the organisation operates. 
To accomplish this, it is important that an NPO clearly understands its strategy and business model as part of the 
value creation process. The Codes of Good Practice for South African Non-Profit Organisations issued by the 
Department of Social Development (Codes of Good Practice for South African NPOs) specifically highlight three 
major responsibilities of the leaders of an emerging NPO to ensure survival and growth: 
•
 Ensuring that its service programme is meeting community needs or problems effectively and efficiently.
• Ensuring it establishes a reliable and sustainable support base in order to fulfil its work.
• Putting procedures in place to ensure the careful and accountable handling of all the organisation’s resources 
and programmes.3
This guidance together with the recommended practices under Principle 4 will assist the governing bodies of 
NPOs with the processes for strategy development and oversight of implementation and execution.
Principle 4: The governing body should appreciate that the organisation’s core 
purpose, its risks and opportunities, strategy, business model, performance and 
sustainable development are all inseparable elements of the value creation process.
Principle 5: The governing body should ensure that reports issued by the 
organisation enable stakeholders to make informed assessments of the 
organisation’s performance and its short, medium and long-term prospects.
Reports are a powerful means for an NPO to communicate meaningfully with its stakeholders, among others, 
beneficiaries, donors and regulators. Reports that are underpinned by integrated thinking and that present 
information about the resources and relationships on which the NPO relies, its activities, outputs and outcomes in 
an integrated manner, are an effective way of informing stakeholders about the NPO’s performance. It also 
demonstrates accountability. Website Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
91
4  Adapted from: Global Reporting Initiatives, G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines – Sector Disclosures for NGOs, (2013); p 8
5  Department of Social Development, Codes of Good Practice for South African Non-profit Organisations (2001), p 13, available at  
http://www
.dsd.gov.za/npo/index.php?option=com_docman&task=cat_view&gid=20&Itemid=116
Ethical  
culture
Good 
performance
Effective  
control
Legitimacy
Principle 6: The governing body should serve as the focal point and custodian of 
corporate governance in the organisation.
The G4 Global Reporting Initiative’s Sector Disclosures for NGOs highlights why reporting is important to NPOs: 
• It enables NPOs to report on the extent to which they act as sustainable organisations in society. 
• It provides NPOs with the opportunity to demonstrably meet the same standards of transparency and disclosure 
of positive and negative aspects of performance that are asked of other sectors. 
• It provides opportunities for the organisation itself and its stakeholders to assess its policies and programmes 
and effectiveness, and the economic, social and environmental impacts of its activities. 
•
 Through the process of reporting, an NPO can critically examine its own activities, benchmark itself with other 
organisations, learn from experience and make improvements over time to better serve the causes it pursues.
4 
The practices under Principle 5 should be considered by the governing body to assist with its reporting 
responsibilities.
The governing body’s status as the focal point and custodian of corporate governance, as set out in Principle 6, is 
a natural consequence of its fiduciary duties towards the organisation. This common law duty originates from the 
fact that the governing body is entrusted with assets and interests, other than its own.
Under Principle 6, the primary leadership role of any governing body is expressed as encompassing the following:
 a. steering the organisation and setting its strategic direction;
 b. approving policy and planning that give ef
fect to the direction provided;
 c. overseeing and monitoring of implementation and execution
 by management; and
 d.  ensuring accountability for organisational performance by m
eans of, among others, reporting and 
disclosure.
The above is a useful framework for the governing body of an NPO to attain an overarching understanding of its 
role. It sho
uld be used as a standing reference point by the governing body when discharging its responsibilities in 
any area of governance.
As stated in the Codes of Good Practice for South African NPOs5, the role of an NPO’s governing body tends to 
emerge from the circumstances that gave birth to the organisation. As the organisation evolves and grows, so the 
governing body finds itself faced with evolving challenges. At any stage of the organisational life cycle, it is 
important for a governing body to be clear on how best to lead and provide direction. Website Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
92
© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
SECTOR SUPPLEMENTS  
CONTINUED
Principle 7: The governing body should comprise the appropriate balance of 
knowledge, skills, experience, diversity and independence for it to discharge its 
governance role and responsibilities objectively and effectively.
Principle 8: The governing body should ensure that its arrangements for 
delegation within its own structures promote independent judgement, and assist 
with balance of power and the effective discharge of its duties.
Principle 7 provides for the governing body to be composed so it is able to discharge its governance role and 
responsibilities objectively and effectively. Where members of the governing body of an NPO are appointed as 
representatives of constituents, donors or other stakeholders, it is challenging to achieve the balance of 
knowledge, skills, experience, diversity and independence needed. 
A formal process for the nomination, election and ultimately appointment of members of the governing body will 
help to ensure that the knowledge, skills, experience, diversity and independence requirements of the governing 
body are identified, that the requirements are communicated to those who are responsible for nomination and 
election, and that candidates are properly vetted. The practices recommended in support of Principle 7 should be 
considered to accomplish this.
In order to overcome resource constraints and an inability to pay market-related fees for the services of 
professional members of its governing body, an NPO should collaborate with professional bodies in its search for 
governing body members. Many experienced professionals are prepared to serve their communities through 
serving on the governing bodies of NPOs for no or minimal fees. 
There is no optimum size and composition for the governing body of an NPO. There may be statutory 
requirements and other considerations to be taken into account, such as where the NPO is in its growth cycle. 
The governing body of an NPO and its chair should guard against members of the governing body sending 
representatives to the governing body meetings, instead of attending themselves. Legally, this practice puts both 
the member of the governing body and his or her representative at risk. 
The establishment and delegation to committees of the governing body as addressed in the practices under 
Principle 8 should be considered in conjunction with industry or sector codes and guidance, applicable legislation 
and proportionality considerations.Website Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
93
6  Department of Social Development; Codes of Good Practice for South African Non-profit Organisations (2001); p 13; available at  
http://www.dsd.gov.za/npo/index.php?option=com_docman&task=cat_view&gid=20&Itemid=1
16
Ethical  
culture
Good 
performance
Effective  
control
Legitimacy
Principle 9: The governing body should ensure that the evaluation of its own 
performance and that of its committees, its chair and its individual members, 
support continued improvement in its performance and effectiveness.
Principle 10: The governing body should ensure that the appointment of, and 
delegation to, management contribute to
 role clarity and the effective exercise of 
authority and responsibilities.
Principle 1
1: The governing body should govern risk in a way that supports the 
organisation in setting and achieving its strategic objectives.
The evaluation of the performance of the governing body, its members and committees as addressed by Principle 9 
and its associated practices, applies to NPOs. The results of the performance evaluations should be responded 
to by the governing body so as to achieve continued improvement in its performance and effectiveness as per 
the principle.
An NPO may be said to be maturing when members of the governing body are not involved in the day-to-day 
running of the operations, management of staff, or other functions of the chief executive officer
.6 The practices 
under Principle 10 are pertinent in this regard. Due to resource constraints, delegation to members of the 
governing body may be necessary under certain circumstances, but should only be considered and implemented 
with the necessary governance processes and controls in place, particularly as they relate to conflicts of interest. 
Under Principle 10, King IV furthermore recommends that the governing body should ensure that it has access to 
professional and independent guidance on corporate governance and the legal duties of the governing body, and 
also that it has support to coordinate the functioning of the governing body and its committees. For companies, 
this role is fulfilled by the company secretary. As a matter of leading practice, it is recommended that the 
governing bodies of NPOs appoint a suitably experienced professional to provide these services. Consult the 
guidance on proportional application provided in Part 6.1: Introduction to Sector Supplements for how this could 
be implemented by NPOs.Website Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
94
© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
7  Global Reporting Initiatives, G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines – Sector Disclosures for NGOs, (2013), p 31, available at  
https://www.globalreporting.org/standards/sector-guidance/sectorguidanceG4/Pages/default.aspx
SECTOR SUPPLEMENTS  
CONTINUED
Principle 12: The governing body should govern technology and information in a 
way that supports the organisation setting and achieving its strategic objectives.
Principle 13: The governing body should govern compliance with applicable laws 
and adopted, non-binding rules, codes and standards in a way that supports the 
organisation being ethical and a good corporate citizen.
Principle 14: The governing body should ensure that the organisation remunerates 
fairly, responsibly and transparently so as to promote the achievement of strategic 
objectives and positive outcomes in the short, medium and long term.
Principle 15: The governing body should ensure that assurance services and 
functions enable an effective control environment, and that these support the 
integrity of information for internal decision-making and of the organisation’s 
external
 reports.
Principle 16: In the execution of its governance role and responsibilities, the 
governing body should adopt a stakeholder-inclusive approach that balances the 
needs, interests and expectations of material stakeholders in the best interests of 
the organisation over time. 
The recommended practices under Principles 11 to 15, which deal with specific governance functional areas, 
should be interpreted and applied in conjunction with industry or sector codes and guidance, applicable legislation 
and proportionality considerations.
Principle 16 addresses stakeholder relationships. Some NPOs have shareholders or members, and others have 
donors or funders who are the primary providers of financial capital to the NPO. Other stakeholders include 
employees, regulators, media, partners, beneficiaries, communities, suppliers and creditors. The recommended 
practices under this principle assist with establishing stakeholder relationships that result in legitimacy, something 
that is critical to the long-term viability and sustainability of the
 NPO.
Additional guidance is to be found in Section 4 of the G4 Global Reporting Initiative’s Sector Disclosures for 
NGOs
7, which is instructive on executing accountability to stakeholders. 
(Note that Principle 17 does not apply to NPOs.)Website Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
95
Ethical  
culture
Good 
performance
Effective  
control
Legitimacy
PART 6.4: SUPPLEMENT FOR RETIREMENT FUNDS 
The supplements should be read together with the balance of the King IV Report, particularly Part 1:  
Glossary of Terms, Part 2: Fundamental Concepts, Part 3: King IV Application and Disclosure and Part 5:  
King IV Code on Corporate Governance.
Retirement funds: the macro view and benefits of 
corporate governance
Retirement funds are an important part of the institutional investor industry, which consists of retirement funds, 
insurance companies as well as custodians, nominees and service providers who act under mandate in respect of 
any investment decisions and activities.
Retirement funds play an important role in the overall system of governance. They make investment decisions 
and have rights as shareholders, and the way in which these decisions are made and rights are exercised either 
reinforce or weaken the corporate governance of the companies that they invest in. Also, these funds owe 
fiduciary duties to their members. They therefore need to be well-governed and apply the principles of responsible 
investing in the quest for long-term, sustainable
 returns. 
Retirement funds that follow and mandate responsible investing wield significant power for the enhancement of 
the checks and balances that are essential for an overall effective ecosystem of corporate governance and the 
creation of value. In King IV following responsible investing principles and practices is put forward as part and 
parcel of the good governance of retirement funds.
Scope
This supplement applies to all retirement funds, including the following types of funds in accordance with their 
definitions in the Income Tax Act, No 58 of 1962, as amended:
•
 Pension funds
• Provident funds
• Preservation funds
• Retirement annuity funds.
Even within the same sector, organisations vary largely in size, resources, and extent and complexity of activities. 
The scope of the supplement was, therefore, limited for the sake of clarity. 
An attempt to address too wide a range 
of variables may defeat the intent of the supplement, namely to demonstrate how the practices in the Code should 
be interpreted and applied in a number of representative contexts, situations and legislative regimes. Retirement 
funds falling outside the scope of this supplement should still align with the principles and consider the practices 
while adapting them along the approach as demonstrated in the supplement. Refer to Part 6.1: Introduction to 
Sector Supplements for the King IV Implementation Roadmap to assist with this.Website Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
96
© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
King IV and retirement funds
BACKGROUND
In addition to legislation and King IV, the Code for Responsible Investing in South Africa1 (CRISA) is a voluntary 
code applicable to institutional investors, the definition of which includes retirement funds. CRISA and King IV are 
complementary codes that reinforce and complement each other. Other industry or sector codes and guidance, 
such as Financial Services Board Circular PF 1302 (FSB Circular PF 130) should be considered in conjunction 
with this supplement. (Refer to the governance framework included in Part 6.1: Introduction to Sector 
Supplements.)
TERMINOLOGY
In order to apply the King IV Code to retirement funds without having to repeat it in its entirety, it is necessary 
to
 explain how the terminology used in the Code could be interchanged for terminology applicable to 
retirement funds.
Term used in the King IV Code Relevant term for retirement funds
Organisation Retirement fund, including pension fund, provident 
fund, preservation fund or retirement annuity fund.
Governing body Board of the fund as defined in the Pension Funds Act.
Chief executive officer Similar but not identical to Principal Officer.
Shareholder Member of the retirement fund and, depending on the 
context, could include the sponsoring employee.
In this supplement, the collective nouns “retirement fund” or “fund” are used interchangeably, as are “board” and 
“governing
 body”.
KING IV PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICES
The essence of King IV as represented by its governance outcomes and principles apply to retirement funds with 
the necessary adaptation in terminology. Principles are repeated below for ease of reference.
1  Committee for Responsible Investment in South Africa, Code for Responsible Investment in South Africa (Institute of Directors in Southern Africa, 2011),  
available at: www.iodsa.co.za
2  Financial Services Board, Good Governance for Retirement Funds – Circular 130, 2007 available at https://www.fsb.co.za/
SECTOR SUPPLEMENTS  
CONTINUED
Principle 1: The board should lead ethically and effectively.
Principle 2: The board should govern the ethics of the fund in a way that supports 
the establishment of an ethical culture. 
Ethical and effective leadership is exemplified by integrity, competence, responsibility, accountability, fairness and 
transparency. Members of the board of the fund should individually and collectively cultivate these characteristics 
and exhibit them in their conduct as set out in the practices under Principle 1. 
In addition to setting an example through its own character and behaviour, the board should also ensure that the 
ethics of the fund is governed effectively. Principle 2 and its supporting practices apply to both a retirement fund 
with its own staff complement to carry out the administration, and to a fund that outsources those services. When 
outsourced, the board should satisfy itself that the fund’s service providers manage their ethics effectively through 
codes of conduct, ethics policies and supporting processes.Website Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
97
Compliance with Regulation 28 of the Pension Funds Act and, in particular, the preamble stating that prudent 
investing “should give appropriate consideration to any factor which may materially affect the sustainable long-
term performance of the fund’s assets, including factors of an environmental, social and governance character”, 
should be seen as an integral part of the fiduciary duties of the board of a fund. 
Principle 3 conveys the same intent, albeit using different terminology. A retirement fund gives substance to its 
duty to be a responsible corporate citizen by ensuring that its investment analyses and practices, whether 
executed by the fund itself or an asset or fund manager or other service provider, take account of sustainability 
including environmental, social and governance (ESG) considerations, as provided for in Principle 1 of CRISA. 
Principle 3 of King IV includes that the fund should accept ownership responsibility for its investment 
arrangements and investment activities as provided for in Principle 2 of CRISA.
Ethical  
culture
Good 
performance
Effective  
control
Legitimacy
Principle 3: The board should ensure that the fund is and is seen to be a 
responsible corporate citizen.
Principle 4: The board should appreciate that the fund’s core purpose, its risks 
and opportunities, strategy, business model, performance and sustainable 
development are all inseparable elements of the value creation process.
Principle 5: The board should ensure that reports issued by the fund enable 
stakeholders to make informed assessments of the fund’s performance and its 
short, medium and long-term prospects.
The practices recommended under Principle 4 address the development and approval of the organisation’s 
strategy, implementation thereof and organisational performance. These practices should be considered and 
adapted by the board of the fund, being mindful of the fact that, unlike a commercial enterprise, the purpose of a 
retirement fund is more narrowly defined to provide the benefits to its members, their beneficiaries and dependants 
as set out by its rules. The performance of a retirement fund consists of delivering targeted investment returns in 
terms of its investment strategy without irresponsible risk-taking, and managing expenses to maximise value for 
money.
3 For a retirement fund, it is especially critical that a long-term view is taken of the fund’s performance in the 
interests of its members.
Reports are a powerful means for a retirement fund to communicate meaningfully with its stakeholders, among 
others, members and regulators. Reports that are underpinned by integrated thinking and that present information 
about the resources and relationships on which the fund relies, its activities, outputs and outcomes in an 
integrated manner, are an ef
fective way of informing stakeholders about the retirement fund’s performance. It also 
demonstrates accountability. 
The practices under Principle 5 should be considered by the board to assist with its 
reporting responsibilities.
In addition, it is recommended that retirement funds apply the disclosure practices as recommended under 
Principle 5 of CRISA as these pertain specifically to demonstrating accountability on investment decisions and 
activities.
3  Stewart, F. and J. Y ermo , “Pension Fund Governance: Challenges and Potential Solutions”, OECD Working Papers on Insurance and Private Pensions, No. 18, OECD 
publishing, © OECD. doi:10.1787/241402256531, 2008Website Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
98
© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
SECTOR SUPPLEMENTS  
CONTINUED
Principle 6: The board should serve as the focal point and custodian of corporate 
governance in the fund.
Principle 7: The board should comprise the appropriate balance of knowledge, 
skills, experience, diversity and independence for it to discharge its governance 
role and responsibilities objectively and effectively.
The board’s status as the focal point and custodian of corporate governance, as set out in Principle 6, is a natural 
consequence of its fiduciary duties towards the members of the fund. This common law duty originates from the 
fact that the board is entrusted with assets and interests, other than its own.
Under Principle 6, the primary leadership role of any governing body is expressed as encompassing the following:
 a. steering the organisation and setting its strategic direction;
 b. approving policy and planning that give ef
fect to the direction provided;
 c. overseeing and monitoring of implementation and execution
 by management; and
 d.  ensuring accountability for organisational performance by m
eans of, among others, reporting and 
disclosure.
The above is a useful framework for the board of a retirement fund to attain an overarching understanding of its 
role. It should be used as a standing reference point by the board when discharging its responsibilities in any area 
of governance.
Principle 6 and its associated recommended practices should be read together with section 7C of the Pension 
Funds Act.
Election and appointment of board members
Even though the election and appointment mechanisms of members of retirement fund boards are prescribed in 
legislation, the boards of retirement funds should still strive towards the aspiration expressed in Principle 7. One 
of the ways in which this can be achieved is by using external expertise as recommended in the practices under 
Principle 7, to assist the board with its oversight duties in the event that objective input on specific matters outside 
its knowledge, skills and experience is required. 
Another manner in which balanced board composition can be accomplished is for employers or sponsors to use 
their powers of appointment to ensure that the board has members with the necessary expertise and experience. 
Those board members appointed by the employer should not be involved in the employer’s decisions as regards 
the fund, and employers should not use their power of appointment of board members to ensure some sort of 
control over funds.
4 Also, a process of engagement with the employees who elect retirement fund board members 
should be initiated to convey the nature of board members’ duties and the competencies required, so that 
informed elections take place.
As is the case with all organisations, professional development and learning are of critical importance in ensuring 
that those charged with the governance of retirement funds are able to execute their duties effectively. Ongoing 
development programmes should include responsible investment and ESG
 matters. 
4  Rosemary Hunter, “The Governance Of Pension Funds”, April 2002  
(Paper presented by Rosemary Hunter to the annual convention of the Financial Planning Institute Durban) Website Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
99
Ethical  
culture
Good 
performance
Effective  
control
Legitimacy
Principle 8: The board should ensure that its arrangements for delegation within 
its own structures promote independent judgement, and assist with balance of 
power and the effective discharge of its duties.
Independence of board members and conflicts of interest
Members of the board should act with independence of mind, regardless 
of who elected or appointed them. Members of the board should not act 
as representatives of their constituencies, and meetings of the board 
should not be understood as forums for collective bargaining. Doing so 
results in board members facing conflicts between the interests of those 
who appointed or elected them and the interests of the fund itself.
5 
Funds benefit from board members who are independent in appearance 
as this supports balanced, objective decision-making in the best interests 
of the fund and its members. It is recommended that at least half of the 
members of the board are independent and appointed from a pool of 
professional board members. Such independent board members should 
be free from any relationships that could, in the opinion of a reasonable 
and informed outside party, affect their objectivity. Smaller funds should 
consider appointing at least one independent, professional board member. 
Independent board members could add objective judgement in dealing 
with the conflicts of interest that those board members who are also 
members of the fund may have. Conflicts may arise in both expense and 
investment allocations and in the context
 of valuations. Valuations can be
 
especially complex when dealing with portfolio companies and assets 
that are difficult to
 assess. The board should ensure that a policy exists
 
which provides for how these conflicts of interest should be managed.
All members of the board are bound to treat as confidential any information 
that comes to their attention during the course of performing their duties as 
such. Such information cannot be disclosed to outside parties, including to 
those who elected the members of the board and to fund members, without 
the express permission of the board on behalf of the fund.
Principle 8 deals with the establishment of board committees. The boards of all funds that undergo a statutory 
audit should consider having an audit committee to ensure proper oversight of the quality of the audit and the 
independence of the auditor. Retirement funds should also consider investment committees to set investment 
strategy and monitor the performance of asset and fund managers against the strategy. Death and disability 
committees may be appropriate for larger funds. 
Regardless of the actual board committees that are established, the practices that address board committees 
under this principle are generally applicable to retirement funds and should be considered in conjunction 
with
 industry or sector codes and guidance, applicable legislation and proportionality considerations. 
Summary of recommended 
practices for the board’s 
access to the appropriate 
balance of knowledge, skills, 
experience, diversity and 
independence:
•
 The board should make use 
of external expertise on 
specific matters outside the 
knowledge, skills and 
experience of the board 
when required.
•
 Employers or sponsors 
should use their powers of 
appointment to ensure that 
the board has members with 
the necessary expertise and 
experience.
•
 The board should ensure 
engagement with those who 
elect board members.
•
 The board should ensure 
ongoing development 
programmes for its members.
5  Rosemary Hunter, “The Governance Of Pension Funds”, April 2002  
(Paper presented by Rosemary Hunter to the annual convention of the Financial Planning Institute Durban)Website Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
100
© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
The evaluation of the performance of the governing body, its members and committees as addressed by Principle 9 
and its associated practices, applies to retirement funds. The results of the performance evaluations should be 
responded to by the board so as to achieve continued improvement in its performance and ef
fectiveness as per 
the principle.
SECTOR SUPPLEMENTS  
CONTINUED
Principle 9: The board should ensure that the evaluation of its own performance 
and that of its committees, its chair and its individual members, support continued 
improvement in its performance and effectiveness.
Principle 10: The board should ensure that the appointment of, and delegation to, 
management contribute to role clarity and the effective exercise of authority and 
responsibilities.
Outsourcing
Many retirement funds outsource all or part of the fund’s administrative functions and investment activities. 
Delegation of responsibilities to a third party does not absolve the board from accountability. Oversight of service 
providers to whom the administration of the fund or investment decisions or investment activities are outsourced, 
is an integral part of the board’s governance role, as the board can be held liable for their actions. The practices 
as recommended in the Code under Principle 10 are helpful guidance on oversight of management and should 
be
 applied by the board with the necessary adaptation in relation to fund administrators and other service 
providers.
When administrative and investment functions are outsourced, mechanisms and processes should be introduced 
for adequate and effective oversight in the same way as the board would have done if all these functions were 
conducted by the management of the fund. 
The board should ensure that a clear mandate is in place between the 
retirement fund and the fund administrator and other service providers. The mandate should provide for 
performance measures and targets and the application of responsible investing principles and practices. 
Execution of such mandates by outsourced service providers should be supervised by the
 board.
The board must be especially proactive in overseeing how service providers manage conflicts of interest. This 
challenge is particularly acute when various funds’ investments are pooled and managed by the same investment 
manager
, and the board should ensure that the interests of the retirement fund are treated fairly in relation to the 
potential competing interests of the co-investment vehicles and parallel funds. 
Appointment of principal officer
Another matter that falls under Principle 10 is the appointment of the principal officer. In terms of the Pension 
Funds Act, the board appoints the principal officer. Hence, the principal officer is accountable to the board and the 
board, in turn, is accountable to the members of the fund. (The board also has a secondary line of accountability 
to the sponsoring employer of the fund, as the retirement fund is fulfilling an obligation on behalf of the employer.)
The principal officer may also be a board member but may, in terms of FSB Circular PF 130, not act as the chair 
of the
 board.Website Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
101
Professional corporate governance services to the governing body
Under Principle 10, it is furthermore recommended that the board should ensure that it has access to professional 
and independent guidance on corporate governance and its legal duties, and also that it has support to coordinate 
the functioning of the board and its committees. For companies, this role is fulfilled by the company secretary. As 
a matter of leading practice, it is recommended that boards of retirement funds appoint a suitably experienced 
professional to provide these services. 
Ethical  
culture
Good 
performance
Effective  
control
Legitimacy
Principle 11: The board should govern risk in a way that supports the fund in 
setting and achieving its strategic objectives.
Principle 12: The board should govern technology and information in a way that 
supports the fund setting and achieving its strategic objectives.
Principle 13: The board should govern compliance with applicable laws and 
adopted, non-binding rules, codes and standards in a way that supports the fund 
being ethical and a good corporate citizen.
Principle 14: The board should ensure that the fund remunerates fairly, 
responsibly and transparently so as to promote the achievement of stategic 
objectives and positive outcomes in the short, medium and long term.
Principle 15: The board should ensure that assurance services and functions 
enable an effective control environment, and that these support the integrity of 
information for internal decision-making and of the fund’s external reports.
The recommended practices under Principles 11 to 15, which deal with specific governance functional areas, 
should be interpreted and applied in conjunction with industry or sector codes and guidance, applicable legislation 
and proportionality considerations.Website Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
102
© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
SECTOR SUPPLEMENTS  
CONTINUED
Principle 16: In the execution of its governance role and responsibilities, the board 
should adopt a stakeholder-inclusive approach that balances the needs, interests 
and expectations of material stakeholders in the best interests of the fund  
over time.
Principle 17: The board should ensure that responsible investment is practiced by 
the fund to promote the good governance and the creation of value by the 
companies in which it invests.
Principle 16 addresses stakeholder relationships. The stakeholders of a retirement fund include, among others, 
the members of the fund, their dependents and nominees, the participating employer, the sponsor (if different from 
the participating employer), the Registrar of Pension Funds and the respective service providers. The 
recommended practices under this principle assist in establishing stakeholder relationships that contribute to the 
sustainability of the fund.
Principle 17 invokes the application of the principles and practices of responsible investing as advocated in 
CRISA, and which should be applied by all retirement funds as a matter of good governance. Website Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
103
PART 6.5: SUPPLEMENT FOR SMALL AND 
MEDIUM ENTERPRISES
The supplements should be read together with the balance of the  King IV Report, particularly Part 1:  
Glossary of Terms, Part 2: Fundamental Concepts, Part 3: King IV Application and Disclosure and Part 5:  
King IV Code on Corporate Governance.
SMEs: the macro view and benefits of corporate governance
Small and medium enterprises (SMEs) are the drivers of a growing and inclusive economy, and of societal 
transformation. In
 order to survive, SMEs need to be innovative and entrepreneurial, and open to technological 
change and productivity growth. They are therefore an integral part of the renewal process that defines a market 
economy
. SMEs play a particularly important role as job creators, thus providing a way for people to enter the 
formal economy and join the mainstream of society.1
Good corporate governance contributes to the success of an SME, as it enhances the functioning of its  
leadership structures and helps the governing body to govern in such a way that the SME meets its strategic 
objectives. Some of the further benefits SMEs can derive from good corporate governance include the following: 
•
 Added credibility and enhanced reputation. 
• Access to capital and loans on better terms.
• The ability to attract talent for employment. 
• Improved access to customers and market participants.
• Better positioning to capture business opportunities. 
• Better fraud prevention due to improved controls.
• Business continuity arrangements that permit the SME to operate under conditions of volatility, and to withstand 
and recover from acute shocks.
• Leadership continuity through succession planning.
• Better management of the risk of conflict in family businesses. 
Scope
For the purposes of this supplement an SME is defined as a private, for-profit company which has a public interest 
score of at least 350 calculated in terms of regulation 26(2) of the Companies Act.
Even within the same sector, organisations vary largely in size, resources, and extent and complexity of activities. 
The scope of this supplement was, therefore, limited for the sake of clarity. An attempt to address too wide a 
range of variables may defeat the intent of the supplement, namely to demonstrate how the practices in the Code 
should be interpreted and applied in a number of representative contexts, situations and legislative regimes. 
SMEs falling outside the scope of this supplement should still align with the principles and consider the practices 
while adapting them along the approach as demonstrated in the supplement. Refer to Part 6.1: Introduction to 
Sector Supplements for the King IV Implementation Roadmap to assist with this.
Ethical  
culture
Good 
performance
Effective  
control
Legitimacy
1  Adapted from: François Groepe, “The role of the small business in the economy”, October 2015 (address given by him while he was the Deputy Governor of the 
South
 African Reserve Bank at the AHI conference, George, 9 October 2015).Website Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
104
© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
SECTOR SUPPLEMENTS  
CONTINUED
King IV and SMEs
TERMINOLOGY
In order to apply the King IV Code to SMEs without having to repeat it in its entirety, it is necessary to explain how 
the terminology used in the Code could be interchanged for terminology applicable to SMEs.
Term used in the King IV Code Relevant term for SMEs (within the 
scope of this supplement)
Organisation Company or SME
Governing body Board
Members of the governing body Directors 
BACKGROUND
SMEs typically grow from the investment of energy, passion and resources by founding members over time, 
sometimes over decades and generations. Such SMEs eventually become a family partnership, consortium, 
syndicate or even company owned by a number of outside shareholders. The risk is for the governance structures 
and processes not to evolve and mature as the company does. Corporate governance facilitates stable and 
sustainable development and the ability to leverage opportunities. It
 is therefore important for SMEs to ensure that 
a foundation of good governance is established from the beginning, so that it is entrenched in the way the 
business is conducted. 
A key consideration in developing corporate governance in tandem with the growth of the company is the 
transition of ownership and management. Business growth ultimately requires an evolution from an 
entrepreneurial to a professionally managed organisational system
2.
KING IV PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICES
The essence of King IV, as represented by its governance outcomes and principles, applies to SMEs with the 
necessary adaptation in terminology. Principles are repeated below for ease of reference.
Principle 1: The board should lead ethically and effectively.
Principle 2: The board should govern the ethics of the company in a way that 
supports the establishment of an ethical culture.
Ethical and effective leadership is exemplified by integrity, competence, responsibility, accountability, fairness and 
transparency. Directors should individually and collectively cultivate these characteristics and exhibit them in their 
conduct as set out in the practices under Principle 1. 
In addition to setting an example through its own character and behaviour, the board should also ensure that the 
SME’s ethics is governed effectively in accordance with Principle 2. The practices associated with this principle 
guide on how the board should discharge this responsibility.
2  Tony Balshaw, Thrive! Making Family Business Work (Human & Rousseau (Pty) Ltd, 2003), p116Website Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
105
Due to the critical role of SMEs in an inclusive, growing economy and societal transformation, they are integral 
to society. SMEs also form part of the supply chain of other organisations, and are held accountable by their 
customers for responsible corporate citizenship and ethical practices. In short, SMEs are corporate citizens and 
should apply the recommended practices pertaining to responsible corporate citizenship under Principle 3 as is 
appropriate to their particular circumstances.
Ethical  
culture
Good 
performance
Effective  
control
Legitimacy
Principle 3: The board should ensure that the company is and is seen to be a 
responsible corporate citizen.
Principle 4: The board should appreciate that the company’s core purpose, its 
risks and opportunities, strategy, business model, performance and sustainable 
development are all inseparable elements of the value creation process.
Principle 5: The board should ensure that reports issued by the company enable 
stakeholders to make informed assessments of the company’s performance and 
its short, medium and long term prospects.
The practices recommended under Principle 4 address the development and approval of the organisation’s 
strategy, implementation thereof and organisational performance.
King IV asserts that organisations contribute to the creation of value and perform well by enhancing the triple 
context of the economy, society and the environment and the capitals that they use or affect. By understanding 
the connection between sustainability and the business, an SME can measure its business performance, identify 
areas for improvement and manage change effectively. This will drive performance and innovation within the 
SME.
3 The practices recommended under Principle 4 are helpful guidance for accomplishing this.
Reports are a powerful means for SMEs to communicate meaningfully with stakeholders, among others, 
shareholders, customers and potential providers of financial capital. Reports that are underpinned by integrated 
thinking and that present information about the resources and relationships on which the SME relies, its activities, 
outputs and outcomes in an integrated manner, are an effective way of informing stakeholders about the SME’s 
performance. It also demonstrates accountability. The practices under Principle 5 should be considered by the 
board to assist with its reporting responsibilities.
3  Adapted from: Global Reporting Initiative, GRI Ready to Report? Introducing sustainability reporting for SMEs booklet (2014) available at  
https://www.globalreporting.org/resourcelibrary/Ready-to-Report-SME-booklet-online.pdfWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
106
© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
The board’s status as the focal point and custodian of corporate governance, as set out in Principle 6, is a natural 
consequence of its fiduciary duties towards the company. This common law duty originates from the fact that the 
board is entrusted with assets and interests, other than its own.
Even though SMEs are often more informal in conducting their business activities, there is a need to put their 
corporate governance on a formal footing. A key element of this is recognition of the board’s overarching 
leadership and governance role as provided for in Principle 6, and its supporting practices. Under this principle, 
the primary leadership role of any governing body is expressed as encompassing the following:
 a. steering the organisation and setting its strategic direction;
 b. approving policy and planning that give ef
fect to the direction provided;
 c. overseeing and monitoring of implementation and execution
 by management; and
 d.  ensuring accountability for organisational performance by m
eans of, among others, reporting and 
disclosure.
The above is a useful framework for the board of an SME to attain an overarching understanding of its role. It 
should be used as a standing reference point by the board when discharging its responsibilities in any area of 
governance.
In an SME, a director is often also a shareholder and manager. In the interest of role clarity, it is recommended 
that formal processes be put in place to differentiate between a single individual’s roles as director, manager and 
shareholder. For example, board meetings should be scheduled separately from management meetings even 
though the same persons may be involved in both. As the founder’s role changes from shareholder-director-
manager to shareholder-director and finally to just shareholder, the degree of involvement and governance 
structures will also need to change. Transition will be easier if roles have been defined and kept separate from 
the
 start.
Formalising a description of each of these roles in writing will further assist individuals to identify in which capacity 
they should
 be acting, especially when specific authorities are exercised. It is recommended that an SME’s 
shareholders sign an agreement with the board (even if they are related or consisting of the same individuals), 
and incorporate in this agreement a board charter, a management charter and a delegation of authority
.
SECTOR SUPPLEMENTS  
CONTINUED
Principle 6: The board should serve as the focal point and custodian of corporate 
governance in the company.Website Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
107
Ethical  
culture
Good 
performance
Effective  
control
Legitimacy
Principle 7: The board should comprise the appropriate balance of knowledge, 
skills, experience, diversity and independence for it to discharge its governance 
role and responsibilities objectively and effectively.
Principle 7 and its related practices are applicable to SMEs, but the following points should specifically be 
considered:
Enhancing board independence 
All directors should, as a matter of law, exercise independent judgement in the best interests of the company. 
Having directors who are also independent in appearance in that there is no interest, position, association or 
relationship which is likely to affect, or may appear to unduly influence or cause bias, could pose a challenge to 
SMEs due to capacity and resource constraints. 
Nevertheless, input free from perceived and actual bias adds value to board deliberations, and serves as an 
added control. Therefore, SMEs should strongly consider inviting an experienced and competent person to serve 
as a non-executive and, ideally, independent director. If this is not possible, such a person may be consulted on 
an ad hoc-basis, and invited to attend board meetings, as and when necessary, to obtain objective input until such 
time as the SME is in a position to appoint a full-time, independent, non-executive director. As the company grows 
in capacity, resources and consequently impact, steps should be taken to include a number of non-executive 
directors and at least one independent non-executive director who serves as
 chair. 
Having a mix of executive and non-executive and one or more independent directors on the board also mitigates 
the risk that emotive issues drive decision-making, especially in family-owned companies or where the authority of 
the founding member is entrenched.
Encouraging professional development
Directors of SMEs who are not experienced non-executive directors should undergo corporate governance 
training so that they are adequately equipped to fulfil their fiduciary duties. 
Nomination, election and appointment of non-executive directors 
Many SMEs do not have a separate nominations committee to deal with the selection and nomination of new 
directors. It is thus recommended that the board charter clearly outlines the nomination, election and appointment 
process, the knowledge, skills and experience required from directors, and any other specific eligibility criteria. 
Once a number of non-executive directors are serving on the board, the formation of a nominations committee 
should be considered.
Non-executive directors should be formally appointed and fees and obligations agreed upfront. Creating a 
professional relationship with board members will help to establish a sound governance structure that is 
progressively less affected by emotive issues that may be connected to family dynamics or a more informal 
working environment.   Website Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
108
© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
SECTOR SUPPLEMENTS  
CONTINUED
Rotation and succession of directors
In order to ensure that there is a balance of power as envisaged in Principle 7, the board needs to ensure that 
non-executive directors are rotated on a regular basis so as to maintain objectivity, which is one of the non-
executive director’s primary contributions. At the same time, care must be taken to protect the required 
institutional knowledge. For an SME, too-regular rotation may not be practical or feasible (especially if the SME 
only has one or two non-executive directors) and thus non-executive directors of SMEs may serve for longer 
periods than in larger companies. 
Because a single individual often fulfils the roles of director, manager and shareholder, SMEs face the risk of 
increased dependence on key individuals. Succession planning for directors and managers should be put in place 
to ensure that key positions can be filled temporarily on an emergency basis and over the longer term. This is 
often a challenge in SMEs, and can affect business growth and continuity from one generation to the next if not 
dealt with appropriately. 
An effective succession plan requires deliberate and well-thought-out processes that are tested and considered 
over time. The
 succession plan should describe how the successor will be chosen, what kind of knowledge, skills 
and experience will be required, what training and grooming will be necessary and how all of this should be 
accomplished.
4 
Principle 8: The board should ensure that its arrangements for delegation within 
its own structures promote independent judgement, and assist with balance of 
power and the effective discharge of its duties.
Principle 9: The board should ensure that the evaluation of its own performance 
and that of its committees, its chair and its individual members, support continued 
improvement in its performance and effectiveness.
Principle 8 deals with delegation by the board to board committees. Due to capacity and resource constraints, it 
may not be possible for an SME to have all the board committees as recommended in the Code. With this being 
the case, the board is responsible for ensuring that it addresses those matters which a board committee would 
otherwise have addressed. Agendas should be appropriately structured or, if necessary, separate meetings should 
be set up to ensure sufficient focus on one particular topic or area (such as audit, risk and ethics). 
The evaluation of the performance of the governing body, its members and committees as addressed by Principle 9 
and its associated practices, applies to SMEs. The results of the performance evaluations should be responded to 
by the board of the SME so as to achieve continued improvement in its performance and effectiveness as per the 
principle.
4  Tony Balshaw, Thrive! Making Family Business Work, (Human & Rousseau (Pty) Ltd, 2003), p114Website Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
109
Ethical  
culture
Good 
performance
Effective  
control
Legitimacy
Principle 10: The board should ensure that the appointment of, and delegation to, 
management contribute to role clarity and the effective exercise of authority and 
responsibilities.
Principle 11: The board should govern risk in a way that
 supports the company in 
setting and achieving its strategic objectives.
Principle 12: The board should govern technology and information in a way that 
supports the company setting and achieving its strategic objectives.
Principle 13: 
The board should govern compliance with applicable laws and 
adopted, non-binding rules, codes and standards in a way that supports the 
company being ethical and a good corporate citizen.
Principle 14: The board should ensure that the company remunerates fairly, 
responsibly and transparently so as to promote the achievement of strategic 
objectives and positive outcomes in the short, medium and long term.
The practices under Principle 10 are pertinent in helping SMEs to attain clarity on the respective roles of the board 
and management. The boards of SMEs should apply these practices to achieve this aim.
Under Principle 10, it is furthermore recommended that the board should ensure that it has access to professional 
and independent guidance on corporate governance and its legal duties, and also that it has support to coordinate 
the functioning of the board and its committees. For companies, this role is fulfilled by the company secretary. 
As a matter of leading practice, it is recommended that boards of SMEs appoint a company secretary to provide 
these services. Consult the guidance on proportional application provided in Part 6.1: Introduction to Sector 
Supplements for how this could be implemented by SMEs.Website Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
110
© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
Principle 16 addresses stakeholder relationships. Due to the sometimes informal nature of relationships at an 
SME, shareholders may be more involved than is the case with bigger companies. With family businesses, 
shareholders also have personal ties with managers and directors which necessitate communication structures 
that create a bridge between family and business matters. Consideration should be given to establishing a formal 
forum in which shareholders of an SME may raise broad questions. Issues typically addressed in such a forum 
could include, among others, succession planning, growth and return on investment, dividend policy, acquisitions 
and/or disposals, going public, shareholder sacrifices and management performance.
5
The company and its shareholders should also agree on policies for future equity ownership. Such policies should 
deal, for example, with the transfer, acquisition and disposal of shares in the SME, including the method of valuing 
shares equitably.
6 
The recommended practices under Principle 16 should be applied by the SME in respect of all its stakeholders.
(Note that Principle 17 does not apply to SMEs.)
SECTOR SUPPLEMENTS  
CONTINUED
Principle 16: In the execution of its governance role and responsibilities, the board 
should adopt a stakeholder-inclusive approach that balances the needs, interests 
and expectations of material stakeholders in the best interests of the company 
over time. 
Principle 15: The board should ensure that assurance services and functions 
enable an effective control environment, and that
 these support the integrity of 
information for internal decision-making and of the company’s external reports.
The recommended practices under Principles 11 to 15, which deal with specific governance functional areas, 
should be interpreted and applied in conjunction with industry or sector codes and guidance, applicable legislation 
and proportionality considerations.
5  See Tony Balshaw, Thrive! Making Family Business Work, (Human & Rousseau (Pty) Ltd, 2003), p96-97 for more information on the role of the family  
shareholders’ committee.
6  Tony 
Balshaw, Thrive! Making Family Business Work, (Human & Rousseau (Pty) Ltd, 2003), p123Website Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
111
Ethical  
culture
Good 
performance
Effective  
control
Legitimacy
PART 6.6: SUPPLEMENT FOR STATE-OWNED 
ENTITIES
The supplements should be read together with the balance of the  King IV Report, particularly Part 1:  
Glossary of Terms, Part 2: Fundamental Concepts, Part 3: King IV Application and Disclosure and Part 5:  
King IV Code on Corporate Governance.
SOEs: the macro view and benefits of corporate governance
As the Presidential Review Committee on State-owned Enterprises1 makes clear, state-owned enterprises (which 
include state-owned entities (SOEs)), create the foundation that underpins economic growth and transformation, 
and thus have an important part in addressing the economic and social challenges facing the country. “South 
Africa aspires to be a Developmental State … [and] SOEs need to be aligned to this agenda. If the country is to 
attain improved quality of life underpinned by a robust democracy and a just society, along with other initiatives, 
the State must preside over viable, efficient, effective and competitive SOEs”. 
Good corporate governance is paramount to the success of the SOE itself, and to protect and advance the 
interests of the country and its citizenry. Governance helps enhance the functioning of leadership structures 
of
 an 
SOE, and provides the arrangements by which the SOE should be governed so that it is able to meet its 
strategic objectives.
Scope 
This supplement applies to all public entities listed in Schedules 2 and 3 of the Public Finance Management Act 
(PFMA). 
Even within the same sector, organisations vary largely in size, resources, and extent and complexity of activities. 
The scope of this supplement was, therefore, limited for the sake of clarity. An attempt to address too wide a 
range of variables may defeat the intent of the supplement, namely to demonstrate how the practices in the Code 
should be interpreted and applied in a number of representative contexts, situations and legislative regimes. 
SOEs falling outside the scope of this supplement should still align with the principles and consider the practices 
while adapting them along the approach as demonstrated in the supplement. Refer to Part 6.1: Introduction to 
Sector Supplements for a King IV Implementation Roadmap to assist with this.
1  Presidential Review Committee on State-owned Enterprises, Executive summary of the final report, Volume 1, p 7, available at  
www.thepresidency
.gov.za/electronicreport/...1/volume_1.pdfWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
112
© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
SECTOR SUPPLEMENTS  
CONTINUED
King IV and SOEs
TERMINOLOGY
In order to apply the King IV Code to SOEs without having to repeat it in its entirety, it is necessary to explain how 
the terminology used in the Code could be interchanged for terminology applicable to SOEs. Although structures 
in SOEs are not necessarily directly comparable to those of other organisations, the following can be used as a 
guideline when interpreting the terminology in the King IV Code in an SOE context:
Term used in the King IV Code Relevant term for SOEs
Organisation Business enterprise, board, commission, company, 
corporation, or other type of entity as provided for in the 
enabling legislation.
Governing body “Accounting authority” as defined in the PFMA or board 
or other terminology as provided for in the enabling 
legislation.
Members of the governing body Members of the accounting authority or board
External auditor Auditor General of South Africa 
Shareholder “Executive authority” as defined in the PFMA. 
In this supplement, “SOE” and “entity” are used interchangeably, as are, ”governing body” and “accounting 
authority”, and “shareholder “and “executive authority”.
KING IV PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICES
The essence of King IV, as represented by its governance outcomes and principles, applies to SOEs with the 
necessary adaptation in terminology. Principles are repeated below for ease of reference.
Principle 1: The accounting authority should lead ethically and effectively.
Principle 2: The accounting authority should govern the ethics of the SOE in a way 
that supports the establishment of an ethical culture.
Ethical and effective leadership is exemplified by integrity, competence, responsibility, accountability, fairness and 
transparency. Members of the accounting authority should individually and collectively cultivate these 
characteristics and exhibit them in their conduct as set out in the practices under Principle 1. This is congruent 
with section 195 of the Constitution in terms of which public administration must be governed by the democratic 
values and principles enshrined in the Constitution, including that a high standard of professional ethics must be 
promoted and maintained.
In addition to setting the example through its own character and conduct, the accounting authority should also 
ensure that the ethics of the SOE is governed effectively in accordance with Principle 2. The practices associated 
with this principle guide on how the accounting authority should discharge this responsibility.Website Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
113
By virtue of their public-interest mandates, corporate citizenship is core to the purpose of an SOE. Also, taxpayers 
contribute to the funding of SOEs. SOEs are thus accountable to these citizens, and the state organs that are 
representative of these citizens, for discharging their responsibilities in accordance with their mandates. 
Therefore, Principle 3 and the practices recommended under it should be applied by SOEs as a means by which 
to give expression to their public-interest mandates.
Ethical  
culture
Good 
performance
Effective  
control
Legitimacy
Principle 3: The accounting authority should ensure that the SOE is and is seen to 
be a responsible corporate citizen.
Principle 4: The accounting authority should appreciate that the SOE’s core 
purpose, its risks and opportunities, strategy, business model, performance and 
sustainable development are all inseparable elements of the value creation process.
The practices recommended under Principle 4 address the development and approval of the organisation’s 
strategy, implementation thereof and organisational performance. These practices should be considered by SOEs 
and modified, keeping the following in mind:
The strategic priorities of government, as decided by Cabinet, are devolved to the appropriate ministers and 
departments. Where in respect of an SOE, its executive authority is different from the minister responsible for 
policy, the policy ministry sets industry or sector policy on a country-wide basis and the role of the executive 
authority is then to set policy parameters for a specific SOE within this framework. The accounting authority of 
an
 SOE should actively seek common understanding between the entity and the executive authority on how to 
reconcile competing objectives so that a strategic plan for the SOE can be developed within these confines.
As far as performance is concerned, SOEs have to balance their priorities so as to both, fulfil their mandate and 
remain financially sustainable. This is congruent with King IV’
s assertion that performance encompasses both an 
organisation’s achievements relative to its strategic objectives, and positive outcomes in terms of its effects on the 
capitals and the triple context in which it operates.
In order to obtain clarity and alignment on strategic objectives, key performance measures and targets and 
potential trade-offs to be made, it is recommended that these be agreed in writing between the entity, as 
represented by its accounting authority, and the shareholder, even where such an agreement is not required in 
terms of legislation. Website Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
114
© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
SECTOR SUPPLEMENTS  
CONTINUED
The accounting authority is the governing body of an SOE, and thus bears fiduciary responsibilities in terms of 
section 50 of the PFMA and, where the SOE is a company, also section 75 of the Companies Act. The governing 
body’s status as the focal point and custodian of corporate governance, as set out in Principle 6, is a natural 
consequence of its fiduciary duties which originate from the fact that the accounting authority is entrusted with 
assets and interests, other than its own.
Under Principle 6, the primary leadership role of any governing body is expressed as encompassing the following:
 a. steering the organisation and setting its strategic direction;
 b. approving policy and planning that give ef
fect to the direction provided;
 c. overseeing and monitoring of implementation and execution
 by management; and
 d.  ensuring accountability for organisational performance by m
eans of, among others, reporting and 
disclosure.
It should be noted that the terminology used under this principle, namely strategy leading to policymaking, is 
usually used in the reverse in a government setting with policy directives leading to strategic initiatives and plans. 
Notwithstanding, the supporting practices are helpful in giving effect to the duties of the accounting authority as 
set out in the PFMA and other legislation. The
 above is also a useful framework for the accounting authority to 
attain an overarching understanding of its role. It should be used as a standing reference point by the accounting 
authority when discharging its responsibilities in any area of governance.
Principle 6: The accounting authority should serve as the focal point and 
custodian of corporate governance in the SOE.
Principle 5: The accounting authority should ensure that reports issued by the 
SOE enable stakeholders to make informed assessments of the SOE’s 
performance and its short, medium and long-term prospects.
Reports are a powerful means for an SOE to communicate meaningfully with its stakeholders, among others, the 
executive authority and taxpayers. Reports that are underpinned by integrated thinking and that present 
information about the resources and relationships that the entity relies on, its activities, outputs and outcomes in 
an integrated manner, are an effective way of informing stakeholders about the SOE’s performance. It also 
demonstrates accountability. The practices under Principle 5 should be considered by the accounting authority to 
assist with its reporting responsibilities.Website Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
115
Ethical  
culture
Good 
performance
Effective  
control
Legitimacy
Principle 8: The accounting authority should ensure that its arrangements for 
delegation within its own structures promote independent judgement, and assist 
with balance of power and the effective discharge of its duties.
Principle 9: The accounting authority should ensure that the evaluation of its own 
performance and that of its committees, its chair and its individual members, 
support continued improvement in its performance and effectiveness.
Principle 7: The accounting authority should comprise the appropriate balance of 
knowledge, skills, experience, diversity and independence for it to discharge its 
governance role and responsibilities objectively and effectively.
The composition of its accounting authority is a key factor driving the performance of an SOE. Like the governing 
bodies of all organisations, an SOE’s accounting authority must have the right balance of knowledge, skills, 
experience, diversity and independence for it to discharge its governance role and responsibilities objectively and 
effectively. The practices recommended under Principle 7, with regards to the appointment of members of the 
governing body, and the role of a nominations committee in this process, are relevant to SOEs. Even when 
accounting authorities do not have the power to nominate or elect members, they should actively seek to 
collaborate with the shareholder on this critical issue. 
The SOE and the executive authority should be transparent regarding the processes followed for the nomination, 
election and
 appointment of governing body members. The accounting authority and executive authority should 
also, subject to legal provisions, agree to put in place arrangements for the staggered rotation of members of the 
accounting authority
. This should be done in order to introduce members with new expertise and perspectives 
whilst retaining valuable knowledge, skills and experience and maintaining continuity.
The practices recommended in support of Principle 8, which deal with the delegation of responsibilities by the 
governing body to its committees, are applicable to SOEs, subject to legal provisions. In particular
, it should be 
noted that the duties of the audit committee in relation to the appointment and independence of the external 
auditor apply differently as the Auditor-General (who can agree to the appointment of a third party to fulfil this role) 
generally serves as the external auditor of SOEs. Furthermore, the composition of an SOE’s audit committee is 
prescribed by legislation, which prevails over the recommended practices in the Code. However, the practices 
with regards to objective oversight by the audit committee over all assurance service providers and functions and 
the quality of their output still apply as provided for under Principle 8. 
The evaluation of the performance of the governing body, its members and committees as addressed by Principle 
9 and its associated practices, applies to SOEs. The results of the performance evaluations should be responded 
to by the accounting authority so as to achieve continued improvement in its performance and effectiveness as 
per the principle.Website Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
116
© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
SECTOR SUPPLEMENTS  
CONTINUED
Principle 10: The accounting authority should ensure that the appointment of, and 
delegation to, management contribute to role clarity and the effective exercise of 
authority and responsibilities.
Principle 1
1: The accounting authority should govern risk in a way that supports 
the SOE in setting and achieving its strategic objectives.
Principle 12: The accounting authority should govern technology and information 
in a way that supports the SOE setting and achieving its strategic objectives.
Principle 13: The accounting authority should govern compliance with applicable 
laws and adopted, non-binding rules, codes and standards in a way that supports 
the SOE being ethical and a good corporate citizen.
Principle 14: The accounting authority should ensure that the SOE remunerates 
fairly, responsibly and transparently so as to promote the achievement of strategic 
objectives and positive outcomes in the short, medium and long term.
Principle 10 provides for the appointment of, and delegation of responsibilities to, competent executive management. In 
SOEs, the executive authority (as opposed to the accounting authority) often has the power, in terms of enabling 
legislation or the SOE’s founding documents, to appoint the chief executive officer (CEO). As a matter of good practice, 
the appointment of the CEO of an SOE should be a robust and transparent process that involves the accounting 
authority to the greatest extent possible, even if the shareholder has the right to make the final appointment. 
It should furthermore be agreed between the accounting authority and the shareholder that the CEO reports to the 
governing body. The governing body and shareholder should ensure that the CEO’s letter of appointment and the 
delegation of authority to the CEO clearly set out that: 
•
 The CEO is accountable to the accounting authority, 
• The accounting authority agrees performance measures and targets with the CEO and assesses the 
performance of the CEO accordingly, and
• The accounting authority has primary responsibility for the removal of the CEO.
Under Principle 10, it is also recommended that the accounting authority should ensure that it has access to 
professional and independent guidance on corporate governance and its legal duties, and also that it has support 
to coordinate the functioning of the accounting authority and its committees. For companies, this role is fulfilled by 
the company secretary. As a matter of leading practice, it is recommended that the accounting authority of an 
SOE appoint a company secretary or suitably experienced professional to provide these services. Website Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
117
Ethical  
culture
Good 
performance
Effective  
control
Legitimacy
Principle 15: The accounting authority should ensure that assurance services 
and functions enable an effective control environment, and that these support 
the integrity of information for internal decision-making and of the SOE’s 
external reports.
Principle 16: In the execution of its governance role and responsibilities, the 
accounting authority should adopt a stakeholder-inclusive approach that balances 
the needs, interests and expectations of material
 stakeholders in the best interests 
of the SOE over time. 
The recommended practices under Principles 11 to 15, which deal with specific governance functional areas, 
should be interpreted and applied in conjunction with industry or sector codes and guidance, applicable legislation 
and proportionality considerations.
Government is a primary stakeholder of SOEs in various capacities: Firstly, it is the shareholder concerned with 
financial viability, the consequences of the SOE’s activities and outputs on the triple context and the capitals, and the 
SOE’s delivery against its mandate. Secondly, government is the industry policymaker overseeing implementation of 
service delivery. Thirdly, it is the regulator concerned with the industry practices of SOEs, their pricing structures 
and the interests of consumers.
2 These various roles may overlap, and may even conflict with each other. 
In addition, the SOE, together with Cabinet and the executive authority, is accountable to the National Assembly, and 
particularly the Standing Committee on Public Accounts, on the basis of the annual financial statements and the 
audit reports of the Auditor-General, and to the Portfolio Committees for service-delivery performance by the SOE.
3 
The accounting authority of an SOE should, therefore, ensure that it proactively engages with government, in all 
its various stakeholder capacities, to foster a working relationship and develop a mutual understanding of how 
these various expectations and accountabilities are to be reconciled.
As far as its relationship with government as shareholder is concerned, the accounting authority of an SOE should 
ensure that the shareholder compact or similar agreement defines the role of the accounting authority and the 
executive authority respectively. Generally, the executive authority should provide direction on policy to the SOE, 
and the accounting authority should oversee its effective implementation by the entity in accordance with 
strategic, corporate and business plans. The shareholder compact or such other agreement should provide for an 
alternative dispute resolution procedure if there is a dispute about the interpretation of the compact or agreement. 
The recommended practices under Principle 16 should be applied by the SOE in respect of all its stakeholders.
(Note that Principle 17 does not apply to SOEs.)
2  Higgo du Toit, “Governance Oversight Role Over State Owned Entities”, National T reasury, 25 November 2005, p 5, available at   
http://www.treasury.gov.za/publications/other/soe/governance%20oversight%20Role.pdf
3  Higgo du Toit, “Governance Oversight Role Over State Owned Entities”, National T
reasury 25 November 2005, p 2, available at   
http://www.treasury.gov.za/publications/other/soe/governance%20oversight%20Role.pdf Website Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
118
© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
PART 7
CONTENT DEVELOPMENT AND 
KING COMMITTEEWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
119
CONTENT DEVELOPMENT PROCESS
The process for developing King IV was designed to build on the strengths of King III. The King Committee also 
strived to involve as many as possible of those who would be affected by King IV in its development. To this end, 
the King IV process was widely consultative, with a participative and inclusive approach to the development of  
its content. 
The drafting of King IV was led by the King IV Project Lead, who was assisted by a task team (see below) 
appointed by the King Committee from its membership to oversee the drafting process. The King Committee itself 
provided final approval. 
The philosophy, principles and practices in King III were the starting point for content development. The input 
gained from extensive face-to-face consultative meetings with individual stakeholders, and the matters that had to 
be addressed as a result of local and international corporate governance developments, were also considered. 
Together, these formed the basis for the development of the King IV content.
There were no standing working groups or sub-committees established for drafting of content. A combination of 
technical corporate governance experts and representatives from interest groups or sectors volunteered to 
participate in a series of facilitated working sessions. Particular governance topics and the governance of 
organisations in the non-profit, SME, retirement fund and public sectors were explored through these sessions. An 
appreciative inquiry methodology was used by professional facilitators as the model for the working sessions 
which brought about a focus on what currently works and what the possibilities are, rather than the deficiencies of 
the status quo. These facilitated working sessions were then supplemented by a number of ad hoc-focus group 
sessions, convened to address specific governance topics and the various sectors in more depth.
The draft King IV Report was subjected to a formal public comment process which resulted in further engagement 
and consultation before finalisation.
King IV is a culmination of all of the efforts and processes as set out above. It is the sincere hope of the King 
Committee that it will be embraced by corporate South Africa, in its wider sense, and that it will contribute to a 
healthy economy, society and environment.
MEMBERS OF KING COMMITTEE
KING IV TASK TEAM MEMBERS: 
Ms Ansie Ramalho (King IV Project Lead)
Mr Mohamed Adam
Ms Linda de Beer
Ms Lindie Engelbrecht
Mr Richard Foster
Mr Michael Judin
Dr Suresh Kana
Dr Len Konar
Ms Parmi Natesan
Ms Annamarie van der Merwe
CONTENT DEVELOPMENT 
AND KING COMMITTEEWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
120
© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
KING COMMITTEE MEMBERS 
(Unless otherwise indicated the members below served from August 2014, when the content development 
process started, until the launch of King IV on 1 November 2016.)
Prof Mervyn King Independent
Mr Mohamed Adam Independent
Mr Bernard Agulhas Independent Regulatory Board for Auditors
Mr Roy Andersen Independent
Mr Suleman Badat Auditor General of South Africa
Ms Linda de Beer Independent
Mr John Burke Johannesburg Stock Exchange 
Mr Chose Choeu The South African Chamber of Commerce and Industry
Dr Gert Cruywagen The Institute of Risk Management South Africa
Ms Friede Dowie Business Leadership South Africa
Mr Shahied Daniels South African Institute of Professional Accountants (until July 2015)
Ms Lindie Engelbrecht South African Institute of Chartered Accountants
Mr Richard Foster Independent
Mr Jaco de Jager Association of Certified Fraud Examiners: SA Chapter 
Mr Michael Judin Independent
Dr Suresh Kana Independent
Dr Reuel Khoza Independent
Dr Len Konar Independent
Ms Khanyisile Kweyama Business Unity South Africa (from February 2016) 
Mr Mabulenyana Marweshe Financial Services Board (until April 2016)
Ms Justine Mazzocco The Institute of Internal Auditors South Africa (from February 2015) 
Ms Julie Methven Compliance Institute Southern Africa
Mr Ewald Müller Independent
Mr Jayce Nair National Treasury
Ms Parmi Natesan Institute of Directors in Southern Africa 
Mr Madimetja Lucky Phakeng Takeover Regulation Panel
Ms Ansie Ramalho Institute of Directors in Southern Africa 
Prof Deon Rossouw The Ethics Institute (from February 2015) 
Ms Matsietsi Mokholo Department of Public Enterprises (from September 2016) 
Mr Stephen Sadie Chartered Secretaries Southern Africa
Mr Marius van den Berg Independent
Ms Annamarie van der Merwe Independent
Mr Anton van Wyk Independent  
Mr Andre Visser Johannesburg Stock Exchange 
Adv Rory Voller Companies and Intellectual Property Commission
Vacant Association for the Advancement of Black Accountants of 
Southern Africa
Vacant Law Society of South Africa
CONTENT DEVELOPMENT AND KING COMMITTEE  
CONTINUEDWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
™ 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
121
NOTESWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
122
© 2016 THE INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA NPC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
NOTESWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial UseWebsite Version 
 
Not for Commercial Use
www.iodsa.c0.za