Operational Technology Cybersecurity 
Controls
)OTCC -1: 2022(
Sharing Notice: White 
Document Classification: PublicDISCLAIMER: The following controls will be 
governed by and implemented in accordance 
with the laws of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, 
and must be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction 
of the courts of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. 
Therefore, the Arabic version will be the 
binding language for all matters relating to the 
meaning or interpretation of this document.In the Name of Allah,
 The Most Gracious, 
The Most Merciful6
Document Classification: Public
Operational Technology Cybersecurity ControlsSharing Indicator: White
Traffic Light Protocol (TLP):
This marking protocol is widely used around the world. It has four colors 
(traffic lights):
   Red – Personal, Confidential and for Intended Recipient Only
The recipient has no rights to share information classified in red with any person outside 
the defined range of recipients either inside or outside the organization, beyond the scope 
specified for receipt.  
  Amber – Restricted Sharing
The recipient may share information classified in amber only with intended recipients 
inside the organization and with recipients who are required to take action related to the 
shared information.
   Green – Sharing within the Same Community 
The recipient may share information classified in green with other recipients inside the 
organization or outside it within the same sector or related to the organization. However, 
it is not allowed to exchange or publish this information on public channels.
   White - No Restrictions7
Document Classification: Public
Sharing Indicator: WhiteOperational Technology Cybersecurity Controls
Table of Contents
 
Table of Figures 
List of Tabels
Executive Summary                                                                                                          8 
Introduction                                                                                                                        9
Objectives                                                                                                                            9
Scope of Work and Applicability                                                                                   10
       Scope of work                                                                                                           10
       Statment of Applicability                                                                                         10
Implementation and Compliance                                                                                  11
Update and Review                                                                                                         11
OTCC Methodology and Mapping                                                                                  12
OTCC Controls & Sub-controls Levels                                                                         12
OTCC Domains and Subdomains                                                                                  14
Structure                                                                                                                          15
Operational Technology Sybersecurity Controls (OTCC)                                          16
Appendcies                                                                                                                       37
       Appendix (A): Terms and Definitions                                                                    37
Appendix (B): List of the Abbreviations                                                                41
Figure 1: OTCC Controls and Subcontrols Levels                                                       13
Figure 2: OTCC Main and Subdomains                                                                         14
Figure 3: Controls Coding Scheme                                                                                15
Figure 4: OTCC Structure                                                                                                15
Table 1: OCTT Controls and Subcontrols Levels                                                         12
Table 2: OTCC Structure                                                                                                  15
Table 3: Terms and Definitions                                                                                      40
Table 4: List of Abbrevations                                                                                          428
Document Classification: Public
Operational Technology Cybersecurity ControlsSharing Indicator: White
Executive Summary
The mandate and duties of National Cybersecurity Authority (referred to in this document as 
“NCA ”) fulfill the strategic and regulatory cybersecurity needs related to the development of 
national cybersecurity policies, governance mechanisms, frameworks, standards, controls, and 
guidelines in the kingdom of Saudi Arabia. These mandates also fulfill the need to continuously 
monitor the compliance of organizations to support the important role of cybersecurity, which 
has increased with the rise of security risks in cyberspace more than any time before.
The world witnesses a rapid advancement in Industrial Control Systems (ICS), which imposes a 
continuous increase in cyber threats towards these systems. This demands the necessity to have 
cybersecurity controls tailored for Industrial Control Systems (ICS) in order to increase the 
protection of critical infrastructures that operates or depends on these systems with accordance 
to international best practices. 
From this prospective, Operational Technology Cybersecurity Controls (OTCC-1:2022) is 
developed to increase the protection of OT/ICS environment. These controls must be implemented 
as an extension to NCA ’s Essential Cybersecurity Controls (ECC-1: 2018). However, the term 
Industrial Control Systems (ICS) includes all devices, systems, or networks used to operate and/
or automate industrial processes
All applicable organizations must implement all necessary measures to ensure continuous 
compliance with these controls as per item 3 of Article 10 of NCA ’s mandate and, as per the 
Royal Decree number 57231, dated 10/11/1439AH.9
Document Classification: Public
Sharing Indicator: WhiteOperational Technology Cybersecurity Controls
Introduction
The National Cybersecurity Authority (NCA) developed Operational Technology Cybersecurity 
Controls (OTCC-1:2022) after completing conducting a comprehensive study of multiple 
national and international cybersecurity frameworks and standards. In addition to that, NCA has 
reviewed and leveraged international OT/ICS cybersecurity guidance, standards, and controls.
The Operational Technology Cybersecurity Controls (OTCC) contains the following:
•  4 Main Domains. 
•  23 Subdomains.
•  47 Main Controls.
•  122 Subcontrols.
Objectives
These controls are developed as an extension to the ECC in order to achieve higher levels of national 
cybersecurity goals by focusing on Industrial Control Systems (ICS) and defining its cybersecurity 
requirements.  This enables national organizations to fulfill mandated cybersecurity requirements to 
increase the protection of its critical infrastructure and its readiness level towards cybersecurity risks.
OTCC document addresses the below four main cybersecurity pillars:
•  Strategy
•  People
•  Process
•  Technology10
Document Classification: Public
Operational Technology Cybersecurity ControlsSharing Indicator: White
Scope of Work and Applicability
Scope of Work
These controls are applicable to Industrial Control Systems (ICSs) that reside in facilities that are 
deemed critical and owned and/or operated by government organizations (including ministries, 
authorities, establishments, and others), as well as private sector organizations owning, operating 
or hosting Critical National Infrastructures (CNIs), whether they are in the kingdom or abroad, 
which are all referred to herein as “Organization” . Critical facilities are defined as the facilities 
where their destruction and/or dysfunction may lead to the disruption or discontinuity of the 
organization’s operation. Additionally, the term Industrial Control Systems (ICS) includes all 
devices, systems, or networks used to operate and/or automate industrial processes.
NCA strongly encourages all other organizations in the Kingdom to leverage these controls to 
implement best practices to improve and enhance their OT cybersecurity.
Statement of Applicability
Every organization within the scope of this document that owns or operates Industrial Control 
Systems (ICS) technologies must comply with all applicable controls in this document after 
ensuring that applying applicable controls will not jeopardize the continuity of the organization’s 
operation.11
Document Classification: Public
Sharing Indicator: WhiteOperational Technology Cybersecurity Controls
Implementation and Compliance
To comply with item 3 of article 10 of NCA ’s mandate and per the Royal Decree number 57231, 
dated 10/11/1439H, all organizations within the scope of these controls must comply with all 
applicable cybersecurity controls in accordance with the appropriate control levels.
Compliance with Essential Cybersecurity Controls (ECC 1:2018) is a mandatory prerequisite for 
the organization.
NCA evaluates the organization’s compliance with the (OTCC:1-2022) through multiple means 
such as self-assessment by the Organization and/or audit field visits by NCA or designated third-
parties in accordance with the mechanisms approved by NCA.
Assessment and Compliance Tool
NCA issues  a tool (OTCC:1-2022 Assessment and Compliance Tool) to organize the process of 
the evaluation and compliance measurement against the OTCC controls.
Facility Level Identification Tool
NCA issues a tool (OTCC:1-2022 Facility Level Identification Tool) to organize the process of 
the assigning the appropriate levels to the critical facility within the scope of this document.
Update and Review
NCA will periodically review and update the OTCC (in addition to any supplement documents 
related to the OTCC) as per the cybersecurity requirements and related industry updates. NCA 
will communicate and publish the updated version of OTCC for implementation and compliance.12
Document Classification: Public
Operational Technology Cybersecurity ControlsSharing Indicator: White
OTCC Methodology and Mapping
NCA developed the OTCC Methodology and Mapping Annex, which is part of the OTCC 
document. The OTCC Methodology and Mapping Annex consists of the following:
•  Design principles and methodology of the OTCC.
•  Relationship between OTCC and ECC Domain 5.
•  Relationships to multiple international standards and best practices.
•  Methodology of designing OTCC main domains and subdomains.
•  Methodology of defining OTCC Controls & Sub-Controls levels.
OTCC Controls & Sub-controls Levels
There are 3 levels defined in the Operational Technology Cybersecurity Controls (OTCC) that 
are dependent on the following criteria:
•  The criticality, consequences, and impact on the organization’s business and services’ availability.
•  The negative impact on Health, Safety, and/or Environment (HSE) of the organization.
•  The negative Impact on national economy, national security or social influence.
Table (1) illustrates the 3 OTCC control levels based on the outcome of the facility level identification 
tool:
Level Definition Number of Controls
Level 1 (L1)
The criticality level of the facility is high and have severe ad-
verse effects, consequences, and/or impacts to operations, cat-
strophic or assets, resources, or Health, Safety, and Environ-
ment (HSE) of the organization.
151 controls and sub-
controls (including L2 
and L3 controls).
Level 2 (L2)
The criticality level of the facility  is moderate   and have sig -
nificant effects, consequences, and/or impacts to operations, 
assets, resources, or Health, Safety, and Environment (HSE) of 
the organization.
117 controls and sub-
controls (including L3 
controls).
Level 3 (L3)
The criticality level of the facility is low  and have moderate 
adverse effects, consequences, and/or impacts to operations, 
assets, resources, or Health, Safety, and Environment (HSE) of 
the organization.
56 controls and subcon-
trols.13
Document Classification: Public
Sharing Indicator: WhiteOperational Technology Cybersecurity Controls
Figure 1: OTCC Controls and Subcontrols Levels
Subcontrols levels are provided in OTCC Methodology and Mapping Annex. More information and 
examples of how the organization can define and utilize OTCC controls and
Level 3 )L3(
Level 2 )L2(
Level 1 )L1(14
Document Classification: Public
Operational Technology Cybersecurity ControlsSharing Indicator: White
OTCC Domains and Subdomains
Figure (2) below shows the Main Domains and Subdomains of OTCC.
1.  Cybersecurity 
     Governance
1-1 1-2Cybersecurity Policies 
and Procedures
Cybersecurity Roles and 
Responsibilities
Cybersecurity in Change 
Management
Periodical Cybersecurity 
Review and Audit
Cybersecurity in Human 
Resources
Asset Management Identity and Access 
Management
Network Security 
Management
Data and Information 
Protection
Backup and Recovery 
Management
Penetration Testing
Cybersecurity Incident 
and Threat Management
System and Processing 
Facility Protection
Mobile Device Security
Cryptography
Vulnerability 
Management
Cybersecurity Event 
Logs and Monitoring 
Management
Cybersecurity Awareness 
and Training Program
Cybersecurity Risk 
Management
Cybersecurity in
Industrial Control System 
Project Management1-3 1-4
1-5 1-6
1-7
2-1 2-2
2-4
2-6
2-8
2-3
2-5
2-7
2-9
3-1
4-1
2-11 2-12
2-10
2-13
1-8
2. Cybersecurity
    Defense
3. Cybersecurity 
    Resilience
4. Third-Party 
   Cybersecurity
Physical Security
Cyber Resilience Aspects of Business Continuity 
Management (BCM)
Third-Party Cybersecurity
Figure 2: OTCC Main and Subdomains15
Document Classification: Public
Sharing Indicator: WhiteOperational Technology Cybersecurity Controls
Structure
Figure (3) and (4) below show the meaning of controls codes: 
Figure 3: Controls Coding Scheme
Figure 4: OTCC Structure
 
Table (2) below shows the methodological structure of OTCC
Table 2: OTCC Structure
OTCC 1 2022
Year of Issuance
.Version No
 Operational Technology
Cybersecurity Controls
6232
Sub-Control No.
Main Control No.
Subdomain No.
Main Domain No.
Name of Main Domain
Reference number of the main Domain
Reference No. of the Subdomain Name of Subdomain
Objective
Controls
مستوى الضابط
L1 L2 L3
Control Reference Number Control Clauses
116
Document Classification: Public
Operational Technology Cybersecurity ControlsSharing Indicator: White
Operational Technology Cybersecurity Controls )OTCC(
Cybersecurity Governance1
Cybersecurity Policies and Procedures
Controls
1-1
L1 L2 L3
Control level
Objective
1-1-1
1-1-2
1-1-3
To ensure that OT/ICS cybersecurity requirements are documented, communicated, 
and complied with by the organization as per related laws and regulations, and orga -
nizational requirements.
With reference to the ECC controls 1-3-1  and 1-3-2, the organi-
zation must document, approve, and implement a customized set 
of cybersecurity policies and procedures for OT/ICS systems or 
assets.
With reference to the ECC control 1-3-3 , the cybersecurity OT/
ICS policies and procedures must be supported by cybersecurity 
requirements such as vendor recommendations, implementation 
guidelines, and configuration management guidelines.
With reference to the ECC control 1-3-4 , OT/ICS cybersecuri-
ty policies and procedures must be reviewed  periodically and/
or when there is a change in the risks landscape, organizational 
structure, and/or process changes.17
Document Classification: Public
Sharing Indicator: WhiteOperational Technology Cybersecurity Controls
Cybersecurity Roles and Responsibilities
Cybersecurity Risk Management
1-2
1-3
To ensure that roles and responsibilities are defined for all parties participating in 
implementing the operational technology cybersecurity controls (OTCC) within the 
organization.
To ensure managing cybersecurity risks in a methodological approach in order to 
protect the organization’s OT/ICS assets as per organizational policies and procedures, 
and related laws and regulations.
1-2-1-2 Cybersecurity roles and responsibilities related to OT/
ICS assets must be assigned to the cybersecurity function in the 
organization.
In addition to the ECC subdomain 1-5 , cybersecurity require-
ments for cybersecurity risk management in OT/ICS must include, 
at a minimum, the following:
1-3-1-1 OT/ICS cybersecurity risk management methodology 
must be included as part of the organization’s risk management 
and safety risk management methodologies.
Controls Control level
1-2-1
1-3-1
In addition to the ECC subdomain 1-4, cybersecurity  requir 
ments for Cybersecurity Roles and Responsibilities in OT/ICS 
must include, at a minimum, the following:
1-2-1-1 Cybersecurity roles and responsibilities (RACI) assign-
ment for all stakeholders of the OT/ICS assets must be defined, 
documented, communicated and approved by the Authorizing 
Official while ensuring there is no conflict of interest.
Objective
Objective
L1 L2 L3
Controls
Control level
L1 L2 L318
Document Classification: Public
Operational Technology Cybersecurity ControlsSharing Indicator: White
Cybersecurity in Industrial Control System Project Management1-4
Objective
To ensure that cybersecurity requirements are included in project management met 
odology and procedures in order to maintain safe operations, confidentiality, integrity, 
and availability of OT/ICS assets as per organization policies and procedures, and 
related laws and regulations.
1-3-1-2 Cybersecurity risk assessment for OT/ICS assets must 
be conducted periodically while ensuring to include risks associ-
ated with signing contracts and agreements with OT/ICS related 
third-party organizations and/or upon changes in related regula-
tory requirements as part of the assessment. 
1-3-1-6 In the event that cybersecurity requirements cannot 
be implemented within the OT/ICS environment, the specific 
justifications for not applying those requirements must be  doc-
umented and approved by the respective cybersecurity function 
and the Authorizing Official. 
1-3-1-7 In the event of risk acceptance, alternative cybersecuri-
ty controls must be clearly defined, documented, approved by the 
Authorizing Official, and implemented effectively for a defined-
period of time while reassessing the risk continuously.
1-3-1-3 Risk register for OT/ICS cybersecurity risks must be 
included as part of the organization’s risk register.  
1-3-1-4 Appropriate level assignment to facilities which include 
(OT/ICS) must be conducted based on approved methodology.
1-3-1-5 Include a qualitative analysis of cybersecurity risks 
within the Process Hazard Analysis (PHA) which is applied with 
any change in operations and/or procedures in Plants. 
1-3-119
Document Classification: Public
Sharing Indicator: WhiteOperational Technology Cybersecurity Controls
In addition to the ECC controls 1-6-2 and  1-6-3 , cybersecurity 
requirements in OT/ICS project management must include, at a 
minimum, the following:
1-4-1-1 Cybersecurity requirements must be part of OT/ICS 
project’s lifecycle.
1-4-1-2 Cybersecurity requirements must be included as part 
of  any functional and acceptance testing and evaluation process 
(such as Factory Acceptance Testing “FAT” , Site Acceptance Test-
ing “SAT” , Commissioning Testing, Change Testing, Integration 
Testing and Source Code Review).
1-4-1-3 Secure-by-design principles must be included as part of 
security architectural designs for OT/ICS environments.
1-4-1-4 System development environments including testing en-
vironment and integration platforms must be protected.
Cybersecurity requirements within the organization’s OT/ICS 
project management must be reviewed, and their implementation 
effectiveness is measured and evaluated periodically.
Cybersecurity requirements within the organization’s OT/ICS 
change management must be defined, documented, and  approved. 
The cybersecurity requirements must be a key part of the overall 
requirements of OT/ICS change management.
1-4-1
1-4-2
1-5-1
Cybersecurity in Change Management1-5
Objective
To ensure that cybersecurity requirements are included in change management meth-
odology and procedures in order to maintain safe implementation of change requests 
in OT/ICS environment by exercising due diligence analysis and control of the chang-
es.
Controls
Control level
L1 L2 L3
Controls
Control level
L1 L2 L320
Document Classification: Public
Operational Technology Cybersecurity ControlsSharing Indicator: White
With reference to ECC control 1-8-1, the organization’s cybersecu-
rity function must review the implementation of (OTCC-1:2022) 
controls at least annually.
Cybersecurity requirements within the organization’s OT/ICS 
change management lifecycle must be implemented.
In addition to the ECC controls  1-6-2  and 1-6-3 , cybersecurity 
requirements in OT/ICS change management must include, at a 
minimum, the following:
1-5-3-1 Cybersecurity requirements are part of the change man-
agement lifecycle.
1-5-3-3 In the event that OT/ICS devices are replaced with differ-
ent, but functionally equivalent devices, whether in design, testing, 
or operation environments, the cybersecurity of the replacement 
device must be validated prior to being utilized in operational en-
vironment.
1-5-3-2 Changes are validated in a separate environment prior to 
implementing the changes on the production environment. 
1-5-3-4 Restricted processes for exceptional changes must be im-
plemented.
1-5-3-5 Automated configuration and asset change detection 
mechanisms must be implemented.
Cybersecurity requirements within the organization’s OT/ICS 
change management requirements must be reviewed, and their im-
plementation effectiveness is measured and evaluated periodically.
1-6-1
1-5-2
1-5-3
1-5-4
Periodical Cybersecurity Review and Audit1-6
Objective
To ensure that OT/ICS cybersecurity controls are implemented and in compliance 
with organizational policies and procedures, as well as related national and interna-
tional laws, regulations and agreements.
Controls
Control level
L1 L2 L321
Document Classification: Public
Sharing Indicator: WhiteOperational Technology Cybersecurity Controls
With reference to ECC control 1-8-2 , the implementation of 
(OTCC-1:2022) controls must be reviewed by independent parties 
within the organization, outside the cybersecurity  function at least 
once every three years.
1-6-2
Cybersecurity in Human Resources
Cybersecurity in Human Resources
1-7
1-8
Objective
Objective
To ensure that cybersecurity risks and requirements related to OT/ICS personnel 
(employees and third party personnel) are managed efficiently prior to employment, 
during employment, after termination/separation as per organizational policies and 
procedures, and related laws and regulations.
To ensure that personnel are aware of their cybersecurity responsibilities and have the 
required cybersecurity awareness. It is also to ensure that personnel is provided with 
the required cybersecurity training, skills, and credentials needed to accomplish their 
cybersecurity responsibilities and to protect the organization’s OT/ICS assets.
In addition to subcontrols in the ECC control 1-9-3, cybersecurity 
requirements related to human resources for OT/ICS environment 
must include, at a minimum, screening or vetting of all personnel 
(including employees, contractors and subcontractors) who have 
access or can utilize OT/ICS assets prior to granting them access.
In addition to subcontrols in the ECC control 1-10-41-10-4,  cybersecu-
rity requirements in OT/ICS cybersecurity awareness and training 
program must include, at a minimum, the following:
1-8-2-1 customized training, qualifications, knowledge, and pro-
fessional skillsets must be provided to all personnel with access to 
the OT/ICS assets. The organization is encouraged to utilize the 
reference material provided in the Saudi Cybersecurity Workforce 
Framework (SCyWF).
With reference to the ECC control 1-9-6, the cybersecurity re-
quirements for cybersecurity in human resources in OT/ICS must 
be reviewed, and their implementation effectiveness is measured 
and evaluated periodically.
1-7-1
1-8-1
1-7-2
In addition to subcontrols in the ECC control 1-10-31-10-3, the cybers 
curity awareness program must include a secure and safe interac -
tion with the OT/ICS assets or systems.
1-8-2-2 Participation in OT/ICS authorized and/or specialized or-
ganizations and groups must be encouraged to stay up-to-date on 
common cybersecurity practices.
1-8-2
Controls
Control level
L1 L2 L3
Controls
Control level
L1 L2 L322
Document Classification: Public
Operational Technology Cybersecurity ControlsSharing Indicator: White
Cybersecurity Defense2
Asset Management
Identity and Access Management
2-1
2-2
Objective
Objective
To ensure that the organization has an accurate and detailed inventory of OT/ICS 
assets in order to support the organization’s cybersecurity and operational require -
ments to maintain the production uptime, safe operations, confidentiality, integrity, 
and availability of OT/ICS assets.
To ensure secure and restricted logical access to OT/ICS assets in order to prevent 
unauthorized access and allow only authorized access for users, which are necessary 
to accomplish assigned tasks.
In addition to the controls in ECC subdomain 2-1, cybersecurity 
requirements for asset management in OT/ICS environment must 
include, at a minimum, the following:
2-1-1-1 OT/ICS assets inventory must be developed in electronic 
format for all OT/ICS assets, and reviewed periodically.
With reference to the ECC control 2-1-6 , the cybersecurity re-
quirements for managing OT/ICS assets must be reviewed, and 
their implementation effectiveness is measured and evaluated pe -
riodically.
2-1-1-2 Automated solution to collect asset inventory informa-
tion must be utilized.
2-1-1-3 OT/ICS asset inventory must be stored securely.
2-1-1-4 Asset owners for all OT/ICS assets must be identified 
and involved throughout the relevant asset inventory  management 
lifecycle.
2-1-1-5 Criticality rating for all assets must be assigned, docu-
mented, and approved by asset owners.
2-1-1
2-1-2
Controls
Control level
L1 L2 L323
Document Classification: Public
Sharing Indicator: WhiteOperational Technology Cybersecurity Controls
In addition to subcontrols in ECC control 2-2-3, cybersecurity re-
quirements for identity and access management in OT/ICS envi-
ronment must include, at a minimum, the following:
2-2-1-1 Identity and access management lifecycle for OT/ICS is 
separated and independent from Information Technology (IT) in-
cluding centrally managed identity and access management solu-
tions.
2-2-1-2 Service accounts must be managed securely for OT/ICS 
services, applications, systems, and devices that are separated and 
disconnected from interactive users account logins.
2-2-1-3 Default credentials for all OT/ICS assets must be changed, 
disabled, or removed.
2-2-1-4 Sessions must be managed securely, including session au-
thenticity, session lockout, and session timeout termination.
2-2-1-5 Automatic disabling/removing of service accounts, pro-
grams, or accounts related to (OT/ICS) assets must be prevented, 
except for monitoring systems.
2-2-1-6 Dual approval and explicit privilege escalation mecha-
nisms for sensitive actions within the OT/ICS environment must 
be employed.
2-2-1-8 Secure and complex password standards must be imple -
mented.
2-2-1-7 Remote access to the OT/ICS networks must be restrict-
ed and exceptionally enabled when necessary and justified. A cy-
bersecurity risk assessment must be conducted prior to granting a 
remote access and its associated risks are monitored and managed. 
The granted access must be through trusted multi-factor authen-
ticated and encrypted channel for a defined period of time and 
with limited access privilege. The remote access session must be 
monitored and recorded while its time duration and granted user's 
privilege must be in accordance with the cybersecurity risk assess-
ment.
2-2-1
Controls
Control level
L1 L2 L324
Document Classification: Public
Operational Technology Cybersecurity ControlsSharing Indicator: White
2-2-1-9 Secure mechanisms to store OT/ICS assets’ passwords 
must be used.
2-2-1-11 Access shall be immediately revoked when no longer 
needed.
2-2-1-10 With reference to the ECC subcontrol 2-2-3-5 , users’ 
identities and access rights must be reviewed in response to cyber-
security incidents, personnel roles changes, or whenever there is a 
change in OT/ICS system architecture.
With reference to the ECC control 2-2-4, the cybersecurity re-
quirements for identity and access management in OT/ICS env 
ronment must be reviewed, and its implementation effectiveness is 
measured and evaluated periodically.
2-2-2
System and Processing Facilities Protection2-3
Objective To ensure the protection of OT/ICS systems and processing facilities (including 
workstations, servers and Safety Instrumented Systems “SIS”) against cyber risks.
In addition to subcontrols in the ECC control 2-3-3, cybersecurity 
requirements for system and processing facility protection in OT/
ICS environment must include, at a minimum, the following:
2-3-1-1 Advanced, up-to-date protection mechanisms and tech-
niques must be utilized and securely managed to block and protect 
from malware, Advanced Persistent Threats (APT), malicious files, 
and activities.
2-3-1 2-3-1-2 Periodic security configurations’ review and hardening 
must be conducted in alignment with the vendor implementation 
guidance or recommendations with respect to cybersecurity and 
organization’s formal change management mechanisms.
2-3-1-3 Periodic security patches and upgrades must be imple -
mented in alignment with vendor implementation guidance or 
recommendations with respect to cybersecurity and organization’s 
formal change management mechanisms.
2-3-1-4 Principles of least privilege and least functionality must 
be applied.
Controls Control level
L1 L2 L3
2-2-125
Document Classification: Public
Sharing Indicator: WhiteOperational Technology Cybersecurity Controls
2-3-1-5 Safety Instrumented Systems (SIS) controllers must be 
configured in appropriate modes at all times, which prevent any 
unauthorized changes, and changes to improper modes are limited 
to exceptional cases with a specific period of time.
2-3-1-6 Application whitelisting techniques or other similar tech-
niques must be deployed to limit the applications that are allowed 
to run in OT/ICS environment.
2-3-1-7 OT/ICS assets must be managed through dedicated, 
segmented and hardened Engineering Workstation (EWS) and 
Human-Machine Interface (HMI) for management purposes and 
maintenance.
2-3-1-8 External storage media is scanned and analyzed against 
malware and APT. The scan must be executed in an isolated and 
secure environment.
2-3-1-9 Usage of external storage media in the production en-
vironment must be restricted unless secure mechanisms for data 
transfer are developed and properly implemented.
2-3-1-10 Systems’ logs and critical files must be protected from 
unauthorized access, tampering, illegitimate modification and/or 
deletion.
2-3-1-11 Unauthorized applications, scripts, tasks, and changes 
must be detected and analyzed.
2-3-1-12 New communications sessions and commands execution 
must be detected and analyzed.
2-3-1-13 Direct communications between the OT/ICS  environ-
ment and external hosts must be detected and analyzed.
With reference to the ECC control 2-3-4 , the cybersecurity  re -
quirements for system and processing facilities protection in OT/
ICS environment must be reviewed, and their implementation ef-
fectiveness is measured and evaluated periodically.
2-3-2
Networks Security Management2-4
Objective To ensure the protection of the organization’s OT/ICS networks from cyber risks.
2-3-126
Document Classification: Public
Operational Technology Cybersecurity ControlsSharing Indicator: White
In addition to subcontrols in ECC control 2-5-3, cybersecurity re-
quirements for network security management in OT/ICS environ-
ment must cover, at a minimum, the following:
2-4-1-1 OT/ICS environment must be segmented logically or 
physically from other environments or networks. 
2-4-1-4 Wireless technologies (such as Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, cellular, 
satellite, etc.) must be restricted, and to only be used when the 
technology meets  specific business requirements and is properly 
secured.
2-4-1-5 Wireless technologies must be segmented logically or 
physically from other OT/ICS networks.
2-4-1-6 Network communications, services, and connection 
points between different zones must be limited to the minimum to 
meet operational, maintenance, and safety requirements.
2-4-1-7 Direct exposure of common remote authentication and 
access management services on external-facing hosts must be pre-
vented.
2-4-1-8 Only authorized business-critical services are accessible 
from the internal OT/ICS networks, and accessibility to  services 
with known vulnerabilities must be limited to the greatest extent 
possible.
2-4-1-9 Direct communications between corporate zone and OT/
ICS zones must be prevented, and direct all the required connec-
tions through dedicated, secured, and hardened jump host/solu-
tion in the DMZ zone.
2-4-1-2 Different zones within the OT/ICS environment must be 
segmented logically or physically in accordance with the zone’s ap-
propriate level that isolates data flows and directs traffic to "Choke 
Points” .
2-4-1-3 Safety Instrumented Systems (SIS) must be segmented 
logically or physically from other OT/ICS networks.
2-4-1
Controls Control level
L1 L2 L327
Document Classification: Public
Sharing Indicator: WhiteOperational Technology Cybersecurity Controls
2-4-1-10 Remote access point in the DMZ zone must not be con-
nected to the OT/ICS networks unless needed, while  ensuring that 
the session is multi-factor authenticated, recorded, and established 
for a defined period of time only.
2-4-1-11 Proxies must be employed between the corporate and 
OT/ICS zones for all machine-to-machine traffic.
2-4-1-12 Dedicated gateways must be used to segment OT/ICS 
networks from corporate zone.
2-4-1-13 Dedicated DMZ zone must be used to reside any system 
that needs services provided by corporate zone.
2-4-1-14 Strict limitation on enabling/usage of industrial proto-
cols and ports to the minimum to meet operational, maintenance, 
and safety requirements.
2-4-1-15 Periodic patches and upgrades for production assets 
must be certified by respective vendor and tested in a separate 
environment prior to implementation.
2-4-1-16 Details related to network architecture and topology, 
zones, network data flows, connectivity, and interdependencies 
must be documented, updated, and maintained.
With reference to the ECC control 2-5-4, the cybersecurity re-
quirements for network security management in OT/ICS  environ-
ment must be reviewed, and their implementation effectiveness is 
measured and evaluated periodically.
2-4-2
2-4-1
Mobile Devices Security2-5
Objective
To ensure the protection of mobile devices (including laptops, handheld  configuration 
devices, network test devices, etc.) from cyber risks and to ensure the secure handling 
of sensitive data and the organization’s information.28
Document Classification: Public
Operational Technology Cybersecurity ControlsSharing Indicator: White
In addition to subcontrols in the ECC control 2-6-3, cybersecurity 
requirements for mobile device security in OT/ICS must cover, at 
a minimum, the following:
2-5-1-1 Usage of mobile devices for OT/ICS must be restricted 
unless specifically required. A cybersecurity risk assessment must 
be conducted where risks must be defined and managed. A man-
agement approval must be granted by respective cybersecurity 
function for a defined period of time only in alignment with orga-
nization’s formal access management mechanisms.
2-5-1-2 Mobile devices must only be used for their intended pur-
poses and in compliance with cybersecurity requirements of its 
respective zones prior to being connected to OT/ICS environment, 
and are hardened and updated with the latest security patches and 
scanned against malware and APT. 
2-5-1-3 Limited and approved list of mobile devices must be de-
fined while ensuring that only these mobile devices can be con-
nected to OT/ICS environment. 
2-5-1-5 Encryptions mechanisms must be used for mobile devic-
es authorized to access the OT/ICS assets.
With reference to the ECC control 2-6-4, the cybersecurity re-
quirements for mobile devices security in OT/ICS environment 
must be reviewed, and their implementation effectiveness is mea-
sured and evaluated periodically.
2-5-1-4 Centralized management of mobile devices must be de-
ployed.
2-5-1
2-5-2
Data and Information Protection2-6
Objective
To ensure the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of organization’s data 
and information as per organizational policies and procedures, and related 
laws and regulations.
Controls Control level
L1 L2 L329
Document Classification: Public
Sharing Indicator: WhiteOperational Technology Cybersecurity Controls
In addition to subcontrols in the ECC control 2-7-3, cybersecurity 
requirements for data and information protection in OT/ICS must 
include, at a minimum, the following:
2-6-1-1 Electronic and physical data (at rest and in transit) must 
be protected at a level consistent with its classification. 
2-6-1-2 Data Leakage Prevention (DLP) mechanisms must be 
used to protect the classified data and information.
2-6-1-3 Secure wiping mechanisms for configuration details and 
stored data from OT/ICS assets prior to decommissioning must be 
implemented.
2-6-1-4 Transfer or usage of OT systems’ data in any environment 
other than production environment must be limited, except after 
applying strict controls for protecting that data.
With reference to the ECC control 2-7-4, the cybersecurity re-
quirements for data and information protection in OT/ICS envi-
ronment must be reviewed, and their implementation effectiveness 
is measured and evaluated periodically.
2-6-1
2-6-2
Cryptography
Backup and Recovery Management
2-7
2-8
To ensure the proper and efficient use of cryptography to protect information assets as 
per organizational policies and procedures, and related laws and regulations.
To ensure the protection of organization’s data and information, including 
information systems and software configurations from cyber risks as per 
organizational policies and procedures, and related laws and regulations.
In addition to subcontrols in the ECC control 2-8-3, the organiza-
tion must ensure that cryptographic technologies used in OT/ICS 
environment are aligned with the NCA National Cryptographic 
Standard (NCS1:2020).
With reference to the ECC control 2-8-4 , the cybersecurity re-
quirements for cryptography in OT/ICS environment must be re-
viewed, and their implementation effectiveness is measured and 
evaluated periodically.
2-7-1
2-7-2
Objective
Objective
Controls Control level
L1 L2
Controls Control level
L1 L2 L3
L330
Document Classification: Public
Operational Technology Cybersecurity ControlsSharing Indicator: White
In addition to subcontrols in the ECC control 2-9-3,  cybersecuri-
ty requirements for backup and recovery management in OT/ICS 
must include, at a minimum, the following:
2-8-1-1 Backups for all OT/ICS assets must be covered and stored 
in centralized and offline locations.
2-8-1-2 OT/ICS assets’ critical configuration files and engineer -
ing files must be included in the backup’s scope.
In addition to subcontrols in the ECC control 2-10-3 , cybersecu-
rity requirements for vulnerability management in OT/ICS must 
cover, at a minimum, the following:
2-9-1-1 Scope and activities of vulnerability assessments must be 
defined for OT/ICS environment as part of organization’s formal 
vulnerability management while ensuring limited or no impact on 
the production environment.
2-9-1-2 With reference to the ECC subcontrol 2-10-3-3 , reme-
diation of newly discovered critical vulnerabilities presenting sig -
nificant risks to the OT/ICS environment must be performed in a 
timely manner.
2-9-1-3 With reference to the ECC subcontrol 2-10-3-1, vulnera-
bility assessment for OT/ICS systems must be conducted periodi-
cally.
3
Months
6
Months
12
Months
2-8-1-3 Backups must be performed periodically as per the de-
fined OT/ICS assets classification and their associated risks.
2-8-1-4 Access, storage, and transfer of backups and their medi-
ums must be secured to ensure their protection against damage, 
change, or unauthorized access.
With reference to the ECC control 2-9-4, the cybersecurity re-
quirements for backup and recovery management in OT/ICS envi-
ronment must be reviewed, and their implementation effectiveness 
is measured and evaluated periodically.
2-8-1
2-9-1
2-8-2
Vulnerabilities Management2-9
To ensure timely detection and effective remediation of technical vulnerabilities to 
prevent or minimize the probability of exploiting these vulnerabilities to launch cy-
ber-attacks against the organization.
Objective
Controls Control level
L1 L2 L3
Controls Control level
L1 L2 L331
Document Classification: Public
Sharing Indicator: WhiteOperational Technology Cybersecurity Controls
With reference to the ECC control 2-10-4 , the cybersecurity re-
quirements for vulnerability management in OT/ICS  environ-
ment must be reviewed, and their implementation effectiveness is 
measured and evaluated periodically.
2-9-2
Penetration Testing2-10
To assess and evaluate the efficiency of the organization’s cybersecurity defense capa-
bilities through simulated cyber-attacks to discover unknown weaknesses within the 
technical infrastructure that may lead to a cyber-breach.
In addition to the subcontrols in the ECC control 2-11-3,  cyberse-
curity requirements for penetration testing in OT/ICS must cover, 
at a minimum, the following:
2-10-1-1 With reference to the ECC subcontrol 2-11-3-1 , scope 
and activities of penetration testing must be defined to ensure the 
coverage of OT/ICS environment and networks connected to the 
operational network by qualified team.
2-10-1-2 With reference to the ECC subcontrol 2-11-3-2, penetra-
tion testing must only be conducted with limited or no impact on 
the production environment, or on an identical separate environ-
ment.
2-10-1-3 With reference to the ECC subcontrol 2-11-3-2, penetra-
tion testing for OT/ICS systems must be conducted periodically.
2-10-1-4 Alternative testing methods (such as passive testing 
mechanisms) must be defined and Implemented to collect  rele -
vant information when a potential impact to operational produc-
tion environment may occur.
With reference to the ECC control 2-11-4 , the cybersecurity re-
quirements for penetration testing in OT/ICS environment must 
be reviewed, and their implementation effectiveness is measured 
and evaluated periodically.
2-10-1
2-10-2
3
Months
6
Months
12
Months
Objective
Controls Control level
L1 L2 L332
Document Classification: Public
Operational Technology Cybersecurity ControlsSharing Indicator: White
Cybersecurity Event Logs and Monitoring Management2-11
To ensure timely collection, analysis, and monitoring of cybersecurity events for early 
detection of potential cyber-attacks in order to prevent or minimize the negative im-
pacts on the organization’s operations.
In addition to subcontrols in the ECC control 2-12-3, cybersecuri-
ty requirements for cybersecurity event logs and monitoring man-
agement in OT/ICS must include, at a minimum, the following:
2-11-1-1 Cybersecurity event logs and audit trails must be 
activated for all OT/ICS assets.
2-11-1-2 Failure attempts in accessing the organization’s monitor-
ing systems must be detected and logged.
2-11-1-3 Continuous, in-depth cybersecurity log review and mon-
itoring, covering all logs and audit trails must be conducted.
2-11-1-4 Monitoring, detecting, and analyzing User Behaviors An-
alytics (UBA) must be performed.
2-11-1-5 Upload or download activities of OT/ICS assets includ-
ing Safety Instrumented Systems (SIS) must be detected.
2-11-1-6 All remote access sessions must be monitored.
2-11-1-7 Malicious events must be detected and analyzed. 
2-11-1-8 Logging and monitoring of new alerts when new or un-
authorized devices are connected to the OT/ICS networks must be 
performed.
2-11-1-9 OT/ICS Threat Intelligence must be used and incorporat-
ed to regularly tune and refresh alerts of Security Information and 
Event Management (SIEM) technologies.
2-11-1-10 All access control points between the network security 
boundaries and external connections must be monitored.
With reference to the ECC control 2-12-4 , the cybersecurity re-
quirements for cybersecurity event logs and monitoring manage -
ment in OT/ICS environment must be reviewed, and their im-
plementation effectiveness is measured and evaluated periodically.
2-11-1
2-11-2
Objective
Controls Control level
L1 L2 L333
Document Classification: Public
Sharing Indicator: WhiteOperational Technology Cybersecurity Controls
Cybersecurity Incident and Threat Management2-12
To ensure timely identification, detection, effective management, and handling of cy-
bersecurity incidents and threats to prevent or minimize negative impacts on organi-
zation’s OT/ICS operation.
In addition to subcontrols in the ECC Control 2-13-3, cybersecu-
rity requirements for cybersecurity incident and threat manage -
ment in OT/ICS must include, at a minimum, the following:
2-12-1-1 OT/ICS cybersecurity incident response plans must be 
integrated and aligned with organizational plans and its proce -
dures such as IT incident response plans, crisis management, and 
Business Continuity Plan (BCP).
2-12-1-2 Formal incident response and root cause analysis for any 
detected cybersecurity incidents must be conducted.
2-12-1-3 Sequence of incident response activities necessary to re -
store normal operations must be defined.
2-12-1-4 Incident communications plan must be established.
2-12-1-5 OT/ICS including Safety Instrumented Systems (SIS) 
recovery procedures must be included in the incident response, 
system recovery plans, and business continuity plans.
2-12-1-6 Trainings and skillsets for the organization’s personnel 
(including employees, contractors and subcontractors) to respond 
to OT/ICS cybersecurity incidents must be provided.
2-12-1-7 Cybersecurity incident response capabilities, readiness, 
and plan must be periodically tested by performing cyber-attack 
simulations exercises.
2-12-1-8 Threat Intelligence information must be used to identify 
Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures (TTPs) of activity groups tar-
geting OT/ICS systems.
2-12-1
Objective
Controls Control level
L1 L2 L334
Document Classification: Public
Operational Technology Cybersecurity ControlsSharing Indicator: White
Physical Security2-13
To ensure the protection of OT/ICS assets from unauthorized physical access, loss, 
theft, and damage.
In addition to subcontrols in the ECC Control 2-14-3, cyberse-
curity requirements for physical security in OT/ICS environment 
must include, at a minimum, the following:
2-13-1-1 List of personnel with authorized access to facilities and 
sensitive locations where OT/ICS assets reside must be main-
tained.
2-13-1-2 Real-time physical intrusion detection alarms and  sur -
veillance equipment, and  proper mechanisms must be  imple-
mented to recognize potential intrusions and apply the approved 
response actions.
2-13-1-3 Physical access points and perimeter to sensitive OT/ICS 
areas shall be protected and ensure continuous monitoring. 
2-13-1-4 Safeguards, such as locks on cabinets containing  control 
systems or sensitive assets related to OT/ICS, must be utilized to 
prevent unauthorized access  to devices that could provide a mech-
anism to compromise the OT/ICS assets.
2-13-1-5 Strict limitation must be enforced on the physical access 
to all OT/ICS assets, including Safety Instrumented Systems (SIS).
2-13-1-6 Visitor access records to restricted locations where OT/
ICS reside must be maintained.
2-13-1-7 Work being performed by contractor or vendor person-
nel must be monitored. 
2-13-1-8 Trainings and skillsets for the organizational security 
guards must be provided in line with roles and responsibilities 
with respect to OT/ICS physical security.
2-13-1-9 Physical security capabilities and readiness must be peri-
odically tested by performing simulation exercises (such as social 
engineering).
With reference to the ECC control 2-14-4 , the cybersecurity re-
quirements for physical security in OT/ICS environment must be 
reviewed, and their implementation effectiveness is measured and 
evaluated periodically.
2-13-1
2-13-2
2-12-2
With reference to the ECC control 2-13-4 , the cybersecurity re-
quirements for cybersecurity incident and threat management in 
OT/ICS environment must be reviewed, and their implementation 
effectiveness is measured and evaluated 
periodically.
Objective35
Document Classification: Public
Sharing Indicator: WhiteOperational Technology Cybersecurity Controls
 Cybersecurity Resilience3
Cybersecurity Resilience Aspects of Business Continuity Management (BCM)3-1
To ensure the inclusion of the cybersecurity resiliency requirements within the organi-
zation’s business continuity management and to remediate and minimize the impacts 
on OT/ICS environment from disasters caused by cybersecurity incidents.
In addition to subcontrols in the ECC control 3-1-3, cybersecurity 
requirements for cybersecurity resilience aspects of business con-
tinuity management in OT/ICS must include, at a minimum, the 
following:
3-1-1-1 Activities necessary to sustain minimum operations of 
the OT/ICS systems must be defined.
3-1-1-2 Redundant OT/ICS networks, connections, and devices 
must be implemented in accordance to the periodic cybersecurity 
risk assessment.
3-1-1-3 OT/ICS cybersecurity requirements must be incorpo-
rated into the Business Continuity Plan (BCP), Business Impact 
Analysis (BIA), Recovery Time Objectives (RTO), and Recovery 
Point Objectives (RPO).
3-1-1-4 OT/ICS cybersecurity requirements must be incorporat-
ed into the Disaster Recovery Plan (DRP) including cybersecuri-
ty-related disaster scenarios, system failure handling procedures, 
and operational continuity management procedures.
3-1-1-5 In the event of a system failure due to a cybersecurity 
incident, OT/ICS assets or systems must operate on an acceptable 
safe mode to achieve a continuous operation.
3-1-1-6 Periodic testing and simulation exercises (e.g. tabletop 
exercises "TTX”) must be conducted to test the effectiveness of 
OT/ICS related DRP and BCP and complete incident root cause 
analysis.
With reference to the ECC control 3-1-4, the cybersecurity re-
quirements for cybersecurity resilience aspects of business con-
tinuity management in OT/ICS environment must be reviewed, 
and their implementation effectiveness is measured and evaluated 
periodically.
3-1-1
3-1-2
Objective
Controls Control level
L1 L2 L336
Document Classification: Public
Operational Technology Cybersecurity ControlsSharing Indicator: White
In addition to the ECC subcontrols within controls 4-1-2 and 4-1-
3, cybersecurity requirements for third-party cybersecurity in OT/
ICS must include, at a minimum, the following:
4-1-1-1 Cybersecurity requirements are included during procure-
ment lifecycle for OT/ICS products and services. 
4-1-1-2 Cybersecurity requirements for third-party evaluation, se-
lection, and information sharing must be defined.
4-1-1-3 Third-party contractors and vendors must use formal and 
documented Secure Development Life Cycle (SDLC) practices for 
systems and components designed or deployed in OT/ICS envi-
ronment.
4-1-1-4 Periodic cybersecurity assessment and audits of third-par-
ty providers must be conducted to ensure the mitigation of any 
identified cyber threats.
With reference to the ECC control 4-1-4, the cybersecurity re-
quirements for third-party cybersecurity in OT/ICS environment 
must be reviewed, and their implementation effectiveness is mea-
sured and evaluated periodically.
4-1-1
4-1-2
Third-Party Cybersecurity4
Third-Party Cybersecurity4-1
Objective
To ensure the protection of organizational assets against the cybersecurity risks related 
to third-parties, including manufactures of OT/ICS-related hardware and software, 
vendors of OT/ICS products and suppliers of OT/ICS-related services as per organiza-
tional policies and procedures, and related laws and regulations.
Controls Control level
L1 L2 L337
Document Classification: Public
Sharing Indicator: WhiteOperational Technology Cybersecurity Controls
Appendices
Appendix (A): Terms and Definitions
Table (3) below highlights some of the terms and their definitions which were used in this 
document. 
Terminology Definition
Protection of system resources against unauthorized access; a process by 
which use of system resources is regulated according to cybersecurity poli-
cy and is permitted by only authorized entities (users, programs, processes, 
or other systems) according to that policy.
It is the security practice of specifying an index of approved software ap-
plications that are permitted to be present and active on the organization’s 
end-users machines and servers. The goal of whitelisting is to protect the 
organization’s end-users machines and servers from potentially harmful 
applications.
A collection of "similar" intrusions and malicious activity, behaviors or 
processes, capabilities, and infrastructure.
The management, operational, and technical controls (e.g., safeguards or 
countermeasures) employed by an organization in lieu of the recommend-
ed controls that provide equivalent or comparable protection for OT/ICS 
assets.
The management, operational, and technical controls (e.g., safeguards or 
countermeasures) employed by an organization in lieu of the recommend-
ed controls that provide equivalent or comparable protection for OT/ICS 
assets.
A choke point is a single point through which all incoming and outgoing 
network traffic is funneled.
A section of an incident response plan that includes communications pro-
cedures for both internal and external stakeholders in the event of an in -
cident.funneled.
Maintaining authorized restrictions on access to and disclosure of infor -
mation, including means of protecting information.
Result of an incident, usually described in terms of health and safety ef-
fects, environmental impacts, loss of property, loss of information (for ex-
ample, intellectual property), and/or business interruption costs that occur 
from a particular incident.
Action, device, procedure, or technique that reduces a threat, a vulnerabil-
ity, or an attack by eliminating or preventing it, by minimizing the harm it 
can cause, or by discovering and reporting it so that 
corrective action can be taken.
Access Control
Activity Group
Applications 
Whitelisting
Availability
Alternative Controls
Choke Point
Communication Plan
Confidentiality
Consequence
Countermeasure38
Document Classification: Public
Operational Technology Cybersecurity ControlsSharing Indicator: White
Terminology Definition
A measure of the degree to which an organization depends on the OT/ICS 
for the success of a mission or of a business function.
Any system or network whose failure, unauthorized change to its oper -
ation, unauthorized access to it, or to the data stored or processed by it; 
may result in negative impact on the organization’s businesses and ser -
vices’ availability, or cause negative economic, financial,security or social 
impacts on the national level.
Provision of multiple cybersecurity protections, especially in layers, with 
the intent to delay if not prevent an attack.
Perimeter network segment that is logically between internal and external 
networks.
A test of the OT/ICS equipment, conducted at the vendor facility where 
the equipment was constructed after the completion of assembly and con-
figuration, performed to validate compliance with the functional specifica-
tions and proper operation of the equipment in a location where problems 
can be more easily identified and remediated.
A collective term used to describe different types of control systems and 
associated instrumentation, which includes the devices, systems, networks, 
and controls used to operate and/or automate industrial 
processes.
The extension and use of the internet of things (IoT) in industrial sectors 
and applications.
The technology involving the development, maintenance, and use of com-
puter systems, software, and networks for the processing and distribution 
of data; generally considered the business and administrative systems with-
in an organization.
Quality of a system reflecting the logical correctness and reliability of the 
OS, the logical completeness of the hardware and software implementing 
the protection mechanisms, and the consistency of the data structures and 
occurrence of the stored data.
Criticality
Critical Systems
Defense in Depth
Demilitarized Zone
Factory Acceptance Test
Industrial 
Control System
Industrial Internet 
of Things
Information 
Technology
Integrity39
Document Classification: Public
Sharing Indicator: WhiteOperational Technology Cybersecurity Controls
Terminology Definition
A single, remote access point through which all ingress network traffic 
must pass between a higher-level zone and a lower level zone.
The act or practice of splitting a computer network into subnetworks, each 
being a network segment.
The process to develop and enforce a ruleset for controlling the communi-
cations between specific hosts and services.
The system of components, including network devices, computers, servers, 
cybersecurity devices, infrastructure equipment, and applications that sup-
port operations, maintenance, monitoring, and cybersecurity of the OT/
ICS environment.
A set of organized and systematic assessments of the potential hazards 
associated with an industrial process addressing known hazards with the 
process, previous incidents, engineering and administrative controls in 
place, consequences of the failure of those engineering and administrative 
controls, facility siting, human factors, and a qualitative evaluation of HSE 
effects.
A measure of the ultimate loss or harm associated with a consequence.
Responsible, Accountable, Consulted, Informed Matrix. Matrix that maps 
each player in a process, capability or function with the degree of involve-
ment and responsibility undertaken in the process.
A method of restricting network access based on the roles of individual 
users within an enterprise. RBAC lets employees have access rights only to 
the information they need to do their jobs and prevent them from access-
ing information that does not pertain to them.
A methodology to systems and software development and networks design 
that seeks to make systems, software and networks free from cybersecu-
rity vulnerabilities/weaknesses and impervious to cyber-attack as much 
as possible through measures such as: continuous testing, authentication 
safeguards, and adherence to best programming and design practices.
Jump Host
Network Segmentation
Network Segregation
Operational Technology
Process Hazard Analysis
Impact
RACI Matrix
Role-Based 
Access Control
Secure by Design40
Document Classification: Public
Operational Technology Cybersecurity ControlsSharing Indicator: White
Terminology Definition
A test of the OT/ICS equipment conducted on-site at the organization’s 
facility after completion of the installation and configuration of the equip-
ment performed to validate compliance with the functional specifications, 
proper operation of the equipment in conjunction with other components 
not possible in the factory acceptance testing (FAT) such as instrumenta-
tion and associated process equipment furnished and installed by others.
A process that is conducted manually/ automatically to identify securi-
ty-related weaknesses (flaws) in set of commands and instructions written 
in one of programming languages.
A simulated exercise designed to test the detection and response capabil-
ities of an organization's operational environment. The organization's re -
sponse teams are guided through a fictional, but realistic OT/ICS focused 
cybersecurity event scenario in a discussion-based format. The goal of the 
exercise is to improve an organization's IRP , BCP , and DRP , as well as pro-
vide facilitated training to its response teams.
The behavior of a cyber-adversary. A tactic is the highest-level descrip-
tion of the behavior and represents the "why" of a technique (e.g. achieve 
credential access). Techniques represent "how" and adversary achieves a 
tactical goal by performing an action (e.g. dump credentials to achieve cre-
dential access). Procedures are the specific implementation the adversary 
uses for techniques (e.g. using PowerShell to inject into lsass.exe to dump 
credentials).
Track, collect and analyze user data, and identify patterns of user activities 
in order to detect harmful or unusual behaviors.
Grouping of logical or physical assets that share common cybersecurity 
requirements.
Site Acceptance Test
Source Code Review
Tabletop Exercise
Tactics, Techniques, 
and Procedures
User Behaviors 
Analytics
Zone
Table 3: Terms and Definitions41
Document Classification: Public
Sharing Indicator: WhiteOperational Technology Cybersecurity Controls
Appendices
Appendix (B): List of the Abbreviations
Table (4) below highlights some of the terms and their definitions which were used in this 
document. 
Abbreviations Full term
Business Continuity Management.
Business Continuity Plan.
Business Impact Analysis.
Critical National Infrastructure.
Demilitarized Zone.
Disaster Recovery Plan.
Essential Cybersecurity Controls.
Engineering Workstation.
Factory Acceptance Test.
Human-Machine Interface.
Health, Safety, and Environmental.
Input/output.
Incident Response Plan.
Mobile Devices Management.
BCM
BCP
BIA
CNI
DMZ
DRP
ECC
EWS
FAT
HMI
HSE
I/O
IRP
MDM42
Document Classification: Public
Operational Technology Cybersecurity ControlsSharing Indicator: White
National Cryptographic Standards.
Process Hazard Analysis.
Recovery Time Objective.
Security Information and Event Management.
Operational Technology.
Responsible, Accountable, Consulted, and Informed.
Saudi Cybersecurity Workforce Framework.
Safety Instrumented System.
Operational Technology Cybersecurity Controls.
Recovery Point Objective.
Software Development Life Cycle.
Traffic Light Protocol.
Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures.
Tabletop Exercise.
Virtual Private Network.
NCS
PHA
RTO
SIEM
OT
RACI
SCyWF
SIS
OTCC
RPO
SDLC
TLP
TTP
TTX
VPN
Table 4: List of Abbreviations
Abbreviations Full term